ASTRONAVIGATION CHANT SEVEN
(On the cosmobionts. Courage silenced)
Then further we sailed through the abysses of empty space
(Seeking Mandys and the sheep watched by the universe)
in space like a stake in a fence — and no planet in sight,
but only black abyss and stars, gazing from afar.
5 Only captain I was vigilant there in stellar voyage,
other comrades slept there in deep darkness each,
but the helmsman guided my ship, a robot.
But when the good comrades awoke from heavy sleep,
at first they wondered what had happened and occurred,
10 but when they recognized it, then they began to anger against me.
Initially only with words they scolded me with curses,
but later tearing out blasters from pockets,
they started rebellion against me, for the matter seemed wrong to them in heart.
Among the rebels there was one man who had the main word,
15 whose comrades of mine and all cried out for Kypta.
He aimed his blaster at me and spoke with these words:
"Die, Captain Nemo, or steer the ship back to
the planet we left behind
the last, for we liked it very much in heart,
20 feasts, sounds of guitars and dances and acts of Eros.
Now we all have money, even treasures, lying on the ship,
so we are all rich, but only in the abysses of space.
We have no will to wander there in the depths of space
Seeking Mandys and the sheep watched by the universe,
25 but to be in a beautiful place and enjoy life a little."
So he spoke; then anger seized my mind and heart,
but no option seemed to me how to get out of it.
Reluctantly I turned the ship back well-made
to that planet, where dogs and cats lived there,
30 inside, in weightlessness, men and women lived,
to the double one, which name, though incorrectly, they gave Concord.
Thus we sailed further through the abysses of empty space,
they with great joy and I pondering evil about them.
Suddenly something shook the beautiful ship and took it by shock,
35 without being able to sail faster as easily as before,
but some force seemed to delay it in its path.
We then aimed the sensors at the ship's stern,
and then, when we saw it, horror and shock seized us,
for now a cosmobion held our black ship.
40 You, dear reader, ask, what kind of creature it could be.
But now I will tell you everything properly:
A cosmobion is a creature of sorts in the depths of space,
which does not live on planets, but freely roams space
in a similar way as do cosmic ships.
45 It has a very strong and sturdy shell to protect itself
and also to shield from the cold in cosmic emptiness —
it partly has a translucent one so that it could let in rays of the sun,
which would only be there in proximity to that creature,
onto its body, which also has chlorophyll in it,
50 to make sugars and starches through biosynthesis
just like earthly plants; that is the food of the cosmobiont.
But it also needs nitrogen, as well as water,
and the cosmobion takes these from other cosmobions
just as they are many and varied in the depths of space
55 small, as well as large, and they all devour each other.

And these cosmobionts traverse the abysses of space
expelling from their anus wildly diverse gases,
thus they always sail in the depths of space.
However, it is not known to us whether any of the bions, the animal
lies at the very base of their steep food mountain
as the primary nitrogen donor. This is still a mystery of science.
One of these beings now held our ship in its grip.
It was a huge creature, larger than the ship itself,
and to us, beholding it, our hearts broke with sorrow.
For this cosmobion had this huge tusk,
long and very hard, and with it wanted to pierce the ship's
hull or top armor and thus bring us destruction.
Immediately then the comrades abandoned both anger and the rebellion,
but now they earnestly raised their hands to me, begging,
seeking some advice and instruction, even a command.
Thus worse men always have a need for a better one,
to rule and guide them, whenever something bad occurs.
I then first sent out the robot to kill him.
Immediately then the robot Ivo jumped out of the black ship.
However, before he could strike the cosmobiont
with the pain carrier blaster, the bion bit off the cable
by which the robot Ivo was tethered to the black ship,
and then, kicking the robot, sent him into empty space.
He flew into the void and became smaller and smaller,
more and more, until finally he disappeared from our sight.
We then, looking at it, yelled like animals,
that our robot Ivo had disappeared into the abyss of space.
But no help came to us, even though we yelled.
I then sent out the main rebel Kypta
to fight the cosmobiont. Although he was in no way
superior in battle or courageous, or good,
but for reasons of revenge, I now sent him out of the ship to fight.
Kypta did not dare now to refuse my order,
although he was weak, he was ashamed in front of the other comrades,
but he put on beautiful clothing, which men
astronauts wear when they go outside their ship.
"Space suit" the British call it with wild voices,
but other men call that garment a spacesuit.
He put it on with trembling and shed many tears.
He went out of the ship, but as the creature saw him,
it bit through the cable of the man and kicked him off the ship.
He flew into empty space and became smaller and smaller,
more and more, until finally he disappeared from our sight.
But I now addressed my comrades with a winged word:
"Listen now to my speech, all you good comrades,
whoever of you dares to go out of the polished ship
into empty space to kill the cosmobiont,
I will immediately give all my treasures to him,
which the king of that hollow planet gave me.
I do not value gold at all; I am a cynic philosopher —
but the safety of the ship now weighs heavily on my mind
as the captain and the rescue of the entire crew.
Well then, let the best man among you now rise
to kill the cosmic beast and accept many treasures."
So I spoke. They all fell silent now, sitting quietly.
For many are people, but very few are men.

Then I commanded them to bring me a spacesuit,
which I put on with anger and shame towards my comrades,
and then someone also placed a destructive blaster in my hand.
But on my back, I took a well-made box,
in which there was an engine that provided rocket propulsion,
which would propel me back and forth in empty space
the way I wanted, and I did not take the cable.
I went into the ship's locker, from which they always release men
into empty cosmic space, and my heart pounded in my chest.
But as soon as they sucked the air out of the cosmic locker,
and then unlocked the door for me into the emptiness of space,
I stepped out of the ship to kill the cosmobiont.
It was high time, for the beast was drilling our ship
with a very hard tusk and would soon pierce the armor.
When I saw it up close, a famous trembling seized my limbs,
as I swiftly moved. For it was a huge beast.
But, mustering myself again, I aimed the blaster at it.
Before I could press the trigger, however, it lunged at me violently,
kicking me with its foot and sending me far into the emptiness of space.
But having activated the rocket, which carries swimmers through space,
I came back, pushing against the black ship.
But before I could press the trigger, the monster slashed at me with its trunk
and sent me back into the dark emptiness of space.
Three times, wanting to kill it, I aimed the blaster at the creature,
three times it struck me, sending me into the abyss of empty space,
three times I returned, propelled by the rocket engine box.
It was not easy to hit that cosmic monster,
for if I missed it, I would damage the black ship.
But when for the fourth time I returned to the battle
mightily propelled by the rocket engine box,
I hit the cosmobiont with the destructive rays of the blaster.
Struck, it immediately became translucent like mist
and then disappeared altogether, and there were no more monsters.
They then joyfully thanked me with many thanks
(through the wireless telephone, also called the radio-telephone),
they praised me with many, big words almost like a god.
But when I heard that, it spurred on my brave heart
to excel even more and make a great name for myself.
Immediately, I addressed my good comrades through the radio:
"Listen now to my speech, all you good comrades:
I have now successfully killed the cosmobiont near the ship,
but our two comrades are now flying somewhere in space,
namely the robot Ivo and the cosmonaut Kypta.
But now hold the beautiful ship in place for me,
while I go searching for the two good comrades in space,
the natural and the made one — both comrades.
If I find either of them or both in space,
which would be the best of all,
I will call you in the ship on my radio hood
to come for me and the others.
However, if I do not find them now in the depths of space,
I will return to the ship with my own propulsion,
or I will call you to come for them with the ship."
Thus I spoke to my comrades and then pressed the button
of my rocket box — then the reaction propelled me into space.


I flew into the emptiness of space, seeking the good comrades.
However, as I sailed through space seeking the good comrades,
they now convened a meeting in their fast ship,
and when they spoke there, two options seemed to them advisable.
Either to stay put and wait until I returned to them,
or to push the ship towards the blissful hollow planet,
leaving the captain to perish in empty space.
In the end, they decided to cast lots
for my life and Kypta's and the robot Ivo's in the ship.
They cast these lots with paper balls,
white or black, and each threw a lot into the helmet.
One determined the number of all the balls,
and the majority decided to let us perish in space.
Immediately, the rocket propulsion drove their good ship
towards the hollow planet — which, fool that I was, I did not know,
only learned later by the educated Franta who told me through the robot.
I flew into the abyss of space propelled by the rocket box,
and soon I saw the robot, as I swiftly sailed through space,
how he helplessly hung there inside the empty cosmos.
I grabbed him with my hands and pushed him in front of me,
pushed him forward, propelled by the rocket box,
— there was enough rocket power for both of us —
still seeking Kypta, as my brave heart urged me.
I also found him there in the depths of empty space,
hanging there unconscious, life already leaving him,
for those preparations that kept him alive in space
had now ceased to function, as he had been out of the ship for too long.
I also grabbed him and dragged him through boundless space,
now calling my swimmers through the radio,
but no response came from the swollen ship.
And when I called in vain, fear seized my limbs,
that I was abandoned in space and helplessness seized my mind.
But in my heart, there were two ways of thinking:
Whether indeed, leaving both the robot and the treacherous Kypta behind,
I should hasten and catch up with the ship,
or to drag the two as befits a captain.
But as I thought so, it seemed better to me,
to drag the two with me and save them from death in the black,
if I caught up with the ship, or I would perish with them.
But the rocket power began to fade in the box,
for they did not reckon that three might need pushing.



However, I had the ray guns, those weapons of great power,
as well as the traitor Kypta and of course Ivo the robot.
Taking them in hand, I shot back into space with rays —
the reaction force driving us forward again.
Thus, with the help of the ray guns, we sailed through the abyss of space,
searching for our ship and my good comrades.
And there, in the distance, I also saw the fast ship —
it looked like a star shining in the black void.
With the last joy, I activated the power of the rocket box,
fired the rays backward, and thus propelled the three forward.
However, as we approached the ship through space,
I saw that another new cosmobiote had attached itself to the ship again,
another one that had now latched onto the well-built ship.
This cosmobiote then held the black ship back,
so it stood still, and thus I could catch up with it.
But the comrades inside were afraid to kill the monster.
It was a fortunate coincidence, which, fool that I was, I did not know,
but by shooting it with the ray gun, I caused it to vanish completely.
They then saw it with great joy on the television,
and immediately, unlocking it, they let us into the black ship,
me as their captain and stalwart man,
also the treacherous Kypta, who lay in deep unconsciousness,
but the ship's doctor then saved his life.
The rest of my cosmic voyage companions
thanked me with joy and shook my hand,
praising me with many great words, almost like a god.
I listened to their words and rejoiced in the glory,
for I had performed magnificently. Fool that I was, I did not yet know,
that they were all treacherous and unfaithful, these companions of mine,
and that they wanted to abandon me in the abyss of empty space
because of the hollow planet and the female buttocks within.
Now, however, fear made them weak, for it seemed to them all,
that the cosmobiotes were on their way to the hollow planet.
Thus, the cosmobiotes changed their opinion along the way.
But there could be no trust in those companions of mine.
So there is nothing more doglike than the nature of a base man.
From there, we sailed on through the abyss of empty space,
seeking Mandy and the sheep that watches over the universe.


