STARVOYING CANTO TWENTY-SECOND
(Reaching out to Mandys and his cunning)
Onward we sailed through the abysses of empty space
in vain for Mandys and his sheep,
yet we saw various things on the starship
wonderful; even I wouldn't be able to tell it all. 
5 But we had this strange and deceptive animal in the ship, 
 because the guards killed it only tomorrow, 
 and not yesterday, when the current journey began, 
 so in the future it can probably be divided into two.
However, it did not seem in my heart to have the animal anymore,
10 because it had to be fed (because I did not want to starve them)
and at the same time it sent visions to me and my fellows,
because it was too bad and weak curtain.
And here my grown-up heart prompted me to try,
if I move time forward again so that it is tomorrow,
15 what will happen to the monster and also to all species.
Perhaps danger did not even seem to hang over us ,
for I always held the knitter of that time in my strong hands.
If something terrible were to happen in the future,
I could jump back to yesterday of my own time.
20 And then I pressed the button and tried what would happen happened.
Immediately the animal disappeared and was no more,
however unknown to us the forces of nature, as well as of time
sent a fast boat there in the boundless abyss of the cosmos
to such a section of it, we no longer know, the cosmic wolves.
25 This now we sailed and we were looking for a suitable planet
where we could stop and rest for a while.
But our sensors selected a planet for us in space
on which, like on our Earth, there was air and a favorable climate.
It was only an asteroid and a small one, but the force of gravity
 30 was like on our Earth, because it was made of a very dense substance. 
This could perhaps easily be yellow gold, 
but we didn't know, because manure covered it all.
Abundant vegetation grew on that manure too, 
however harmful there was a stench all over that planet, 
35 just like the man Grogal prophesied to us, frozen in ice. 
The whole asteroid was as black as our Earth is, 
only the nights and days alternated much faster there, 
and also on the horizon, the curve seemed more convex,
so that from a distance everyone seemed bigger to us,
40 and when a herd of sheep appeared over the horizon,
the sheep seemed bigger, about as big as horses.
To us, when we looked at it, there the lovely heart was pounding, 
for we recognized that the soothsayer had spoken about it,
and here we also knew that Mandys and the sheep were near.
45 But all those sheep were guarded there by a strange shepherd.
He was completely similar in body to a normal person,
 but he had a dog's head, which was surprisingly large. he translated everything beautifully.
I asked him how he came here to the asteroid,
and also about his family and his famous parents.
But he answered me that it was created artificially,
55 that it was not natural, but made by a complex technique. 
“There is some kind of association or brotherhood out there in the wide cosmos,
it takes care of the preservation of all the old mythologies.
And these genetic engineering creates
all the ancient gods of all faiths all over the cosmos,
60 or their likeness — and they also created me
as they say the shepherd of the god of the Slavs, who is called Velés,
who has the body of a man, but his head is that of a dog.
They created me like that and put me on this planet,
to shepherd them here he made sheep and the god Veles."
65 So said the sly man, and my heart wondered.
There is nothing more wonderful than nature itself.
But here I asked him again and quickly about Mandys,
about whom the man Grogal told me that will be on this planet,
but that god Velés answered me with a willing word:
70 "A man came here once in a spaceship,
he was hunchbacked and limping and his head
was bald and bushy, and what about the nose ,
he had a huge one and was like a red fig,
his two eyes were like big balls.
75 He also had a sheep with him there, one with a woolly head,
and he wanted to settle here, where there are many sheep,
with his sheep his own, he chose a cave for his house, 
but the man made the sheep a kind of companion,
because he stuck her hind legs into his boots,
80 then he pulled down his pants and fornicated heavily with the sheep.
I often saw him with my own eyes he saw you doing things,
but I was always disgusted when I looked at him then.
But there are many male rams on this planet,
and those with his sheep wanted to do the same at the same time,
85 but the spiteful man he quarreled with them about the sheep.
Often the rams beat him with hard horns,
they made him weak, because he was not a strong man.
Finally, the man again took his dear sheep,
climbed with her into his boat and flew away into the boundless universe.
 90 This man and sheep were coming to our planet." 
Thus said the scornful man, my heart broke, 
for the sly Mandys seemed far away to me again, 
the destination of our journey was now again not in sight. 
But I am determined to stay here for a little while longer, 
95 from space to rest there on the planets on solid ground, 
to live on normal food here instead of synthetic food.
Because the astroid, feeding the sheep, was not so bad, 
because many and beautiful plants grew on it, 
flowers various plants were beautiful and numerous there, 
100 even the stench of sheep dung did not oppress the nostrils too much, 
because the nose had become accustomed to it and could hardly smell it anymore. it didn't seem to be,
because the alternation of light and darkness was very fast here,
105 and also the spinning of the stars overhead very fast
up in the black sky, it made one's head spin.
All other beings there on that asteroid,
sheep and their shepherd has apparently already gotten used to it.
For eight earthly hours the shepherd slept in his slough,
110 but for the remaining sixteen he took care of his sheep.
But I lost sleep over there from the turning of the heavens
and also from the alternation there of swift light and dark.
The others, all my good companions, faithful
sweetly slept their sleep there in our boat of black,
115 but I alone walked here and there,
you are not able to sleep and fatigue gripped my heart.
But I found a cave, in which lived a wicked man, 
I also went inside, I would see and examine the home, 
for terrible fatigue and boredom held my insides. 
120 I found him lying there near the hearth in sleep,
a man with a dog-like head, whose name they called Velés.
I remained standing in the doorway and stared at him sleeping there,
but now the shepherd began to talk to himself in his sleep.
And when I heard the speech, I immediately started pounding heart,
125 for the wretched man spoke with our language.
I crept closer to that strange man,
and I touched his dog's head very lightly.
The mask was the head, and when I took it down,
Mandys was too hideous and I saw a hideous face there! 
130 I roared with a terrible voice and called my friends, 
and then, rushing at him, I caught the evil thief. 
Waking from his sleep, Mandys fought with all his strength, 
but no wait he didn't have anymore, although he was washing. 
For all the men here heard my screams, 
135 they quickly ran into the slush and grabbed Mandys themselves, 
they tied the handcuffs with the heavy ones and this is how we held the man, 
with the joy that we have just finished our mission beautifully ,
sailing for six years there through those abysses of the cosmos,
seeing all the wonders of there planets and the beings that live on them,
140 setting my life and good and losing all my fellows,
looking for Mandy and the sheep that watches the universe.
This now we had already Mandys the grumpy man,
and the sheep was near here, on the same planet surely.
Therefore we men looked at it with great joy.
145 But I announced a meeting and addressed the good fellows,
asking their advice about Mandys and his sheep. 
