STARFLIGHTS SONG FIFTEENTH
(On the royal daughter, the monster, and the noble rescuer
according to the archetypal schema)
So thus we sailed there in the depths of empty space
in its unknown region, for we were driven by nuclear power
that sharply multiplied there in the magnetic field
of the pulsar, as I have already sung to you before.
5 However, we now tried to slow down the speed of the ship,
men began firing rockets in reverse,
but even so, no possibility arose from this attempt
to stop the ship's movement, for the impulse was very great.
But step by step, the great impulse vanished
10 under the reverse firing of the rockets, and control returned
to steering the spaceship through the depths of space,
but no one knew where exactly we were in space,
neither the computer nor the robot nor any mortal man.
Then from despair and destruction, with sighs in our hearts,
15 we wanted to recuperate somewhere first, to rest
somewhere on solid ground, for the vast cosmos was destroying us.
Immediately, we urged the ship's sensors to search for us
a suitable landing planet, which would carry similar life
as on our Earth, and where now we could
20 pause with the ship and rest on it ourselves.
Then our sensors found in the depths of space
using that future technology, strangely to behold,
and thus to this planet I led the black ship.
For five days we sailed to that planet, which were shown
25 by our remote sensors - those future technological wonders,
and then we found that it was the third in the system
from their own sun, just as Earth is,
but it was smaller and lighter to walk there,
we were all athletes on that planet,
30 we could run quickly and jump high and far.
Their sun there was also cooler than on Earth,
cold, high sky, but only slightly, not much.
So on this planet we landed with the starship
and there we rested in a kind of green forest,
35 narrowly escaping death, yet completely lost ourselves.
But when we had rested a little there, men,
then I chose a quartet of the best men from among them all,
sent them to the land to see and also to find out
what kind of beings would be in that land, eaters of food,
40 whether they would be wild and arrogant, as well as wicked,
or whether they are friendly and have a gentle mind,
not unarmed, for experience taught us,
so everyone had excellent weapons in their pockets,
which science fiction writers call phasers in their writings.
45 Soon they came across a city where strange houses stood,
they walked swiftly towards it and observed it with a telescope.
Many beings lived there in that strange city
quite similar to humans, but weaker in appearance,
they were taller and slenderer, so there was less weight there,
50 than on our Earth and on its burdened men.
But some sadness seemed to hold them all there.
Everywhere and constantly there was heard crying and lamentation.
They looked again and estimated their technical knowledge,
that it was smaller than ours.
55 They returned back to the forest and to our ship
and there they reported to me and my companions what they had seen.
But now curiosity immediately prompted my heart
to go to that city and find out the causes of sorrow.
I went back to that city and the scouts with me,
60 but there were only five of us, or others also went with us,
Franta the interpreter and Ivo robocop as well.

But when we came there to the strange towered city,
here I addressed the first man I met with the words,
he asked him about the origin of the wailing and weeping throughout the city,
65 but the interpreter Franta translated all those speeches.
But the tall man answered me with sad words:
"Stupid you are, stranger, surely, for you had to come from afar,
that you are now asking me about the cause of crying and lamentation.
We all know it here, even the neighbors and the townspeople,
70 that we have to sacrifice a girl here tomorrow
to the demon Gr-rg-r, who is the daughter of our king.
That is why all the men here are crying
young as well as old, and with them all also women.

But there is no waste, for if there were no sacrifice,
75 Gr-rg-gros would destroy all here, wicked demon.'
That's what the townsman said, and Franta translated the speech.
But to me, when I heard it, joy took hold of my heart,
for I discerned the myth they call archetypal,
namely, about the ruler's daughter and some big monster,
80 and here, too, my grown-up heart spurred me on,
to help her in this and kill the monster itself.
Again I urged the townsman by saying,
to lead us now to the house of the ruler with the brazen threshold,
me and also my friends who were there with me at the time.
85 That man agreed and led us on the way to the king.
However, I called our black boat there first
on the radio and said we were going to the king of the country.
This we found in the hall, sitting there on a great throne,
sighing, because his daughter's fate troubled him greatly.
90 Now I addressed him with polite speech,
he promised that I will surely kill the evil demon for him tomorrow
quickly and without danger and I will save his daughter.

But with a terrible laugh the ruler shouted in reply,
and then, all in tears, he spoke to me with great words.
95 (Franta, the omniscient interpreter, translated it all, of course.)
"You are foolish, stranger, surely, for you had to come a long way,
if you think you can kill Grg-rg-ra with a gun.
Men many and good have often tried it here,
but he killed them all, for he is not a mortal being.
100 I will tell you everything now, because my heart urges me to speak,
to put my mind at ease, talk about it,
but sit on the stools now, you and your companions,
to tell you now how difficult our grief has begun.'
Thus said the man the king, and my stout heart obeyed.
105 I immediately sat on the chair and the other companions with me,
but the man the king then spoke to us with fleeting words:
"Know then, stranger, now all this of our woe,
to leave the earth and tell people far away,
for I do not think there is any man
110 who could fight with Grg-rg-gre as a victor,
I don't even want to try how you would beat others,
he wants to kill Grg-rg-gra — that is certain dire destruction.

I'll just tell you now and weigh it up in your mind.
There are certainly others up there in the shadowy mountains
115 animals like that Grg-rg, however, do no harm there,
for they graze on the grass; however, they made one malignant
male dwarves, he would become a heavy burden to us.
For there are dwarfs here men wicked in our land,
they always treat normal people with hostility.
120 They are not, as little ones, able to fight in battle,
but they still devise various tricks in our hearts.
Thus even the last stratagem they devised for our destruction:
Know that that Grg-rg and his relatives all,
which in our language we all call sparrows,
125 they have no bones and change their shapes in various ways,
always having various forms and colors,
and it also keeps changing as it happens,
they also have the ability to pass through small holes
different, because they have nothing solid in their bodies at all
130 shapeless proboscis, they are very plastic creatures.
If someone were to cut the spout with too sharp a metal,
immediately one creature becomes two animals.
If someone were to cause a wound with snort, tna, bitter,
he is immediately healed and the monster is healthy again,
135 it is not even possible to kill him with a flaming fire:
can also secrete mucus cold, very abundant,
nor is it possible to quickly quench the wrath of the fire with it
make a big fire, because that would destroy the city.

Such beasts of prey are indestructible in battle,
140 but those animals themselves easily suffocate their entrails,
she wraps her body around the man, who then suffocates immediately.
It's really hard for the men there to fight with those guys.
But the common skunks, they live far away from us,
they don't attack people either, and neither do other beings,
145 eat only plants and are mild creatures.
But that the dwarves made one of us miserable,
of this Grg-rg-ga to us with his complex cunning.
For know now, stranger, that snotty animals are loathsome
they connect with each other like all other animals
150 to procreation, the birth of a family, as the order of nature dictates.
But these sprites grow into one another,
they become one creature before splitting again.
If any ghoul wanted to do that to a human being,
he would kill a man himself, because he would suffocate in his body.
155 But now observe for yourself the hideous work of those goblins:
They stole a normal girl and normal parents daughter,
then they gave her to take care of a tiny little cub.
But when the young one reared by the girl then grew up,
it did not want to join with other sparrows in its passion,
160 but with women only, and the black thus brought them destruction.
Men created such a clever trick those goblins
the malignant Gr-rg-ra and sent him to our city.'
— I believed what he said, because I knew it for sure,
the same thing that happens on Earth with many animals as well:
165 zoologists call this phenomenon in animals "imprinting",
in an English word as it is already customary in science today. —
“But Gr-rg-gros now ruts every moon,
and here in our nation they always kill one girl,
so that he will probably kill all our girls and women.
170 But that we have no way to avoid the terrible monster,
I always choose a girl for her first by drawing lots.

The last time he drew lots and chose my own daughter
— in this we are all equal under the laws here on our earth,
whether you are a king or a great man or just a poor day laborer.
175 However, tomorrow a terrible monster will kill her.'
Thus spake the kingly man, shedding copious tears.
But I, in reply, addressed him with speech:
"Be strong now, O king, for there is no need to shed tears,
for we can very easily kill him ourselves,
180 not by fire, nor by bronze, nor by cruel steel,
but with the technology we already have as foreigners.
I will show you this now, so that you will have confidence in me.”
So I said, and taking the fejzer out of my pocket,
I went to one window and opened that too,
185 and over there there was a kind of bird on the roof,
which I would probably compare with the ground pigeon.
I hit him with a phaser, he turned transparent and then disappeared.
When the king saw this, he immediately jumped up with joy in his heart,
he immediately called the king's daughter to his hall,
190 and because of that I hit the bird again there on the tower.
The girl was delighted and laughed, clapping her hands.

The king and his daughter were thus pleased
then they told us how everything will happen tomorrow
then we men returned to the running ship again,
195 we would rest and also take food,
they washed their bodies and slept sweetly.
Thus in the arms of sleep we waited for the clear dawn.
Zora, when she was born in the morning, appeared with pink fingers
(alien and unlike our earthly one at all),
200 again, I and my fellow men went out to the city
together with the robot Ive and the multilingual Franta.
But here in the square a large crowd had gathered
of people wailing, and the noise was there of their weeping.
Then there was a large house that seemed like a temple,
205 and outside before that temple stood strange men there
on the body in black robes and had shaved heads.
Suddenly we heard trumpets blowing,
and now the girl was already being led there in front of the temple by armed men
and her royal father followed them with sorrow in his heart.
210 And there, in front of the temple itself, the mournful procession stopped
and those priests there tied the girl to the pillar.
An unquenchable heavy rose in the crowd of wails,
when they saw their princess bound there by that pillar.
Then the highest of all the priests began to speak to them
215 and now he addressed all the people there, as well as the king
(however, the interpreter Franta translated all the speeches):
"It is bitter indeed, O king, that you should give your maiden as a sacrifice,
to you and to all and the people and also to us priests,
but we have no way of avoiding the will of the gods.
220 Or if Grg-rg-gros didn't get here for every month
one girl as a sacrifice, terrible things would happen there,
the rain would stop falling and the vegetables wouldn't grow,
eventually the sun itself would stop rising in the morning.

Wherefore, with expressions of gratitude, let us deliver this girl to him,
225 to the god Grg-rg-gr, would avert destruction from us.'
That's what the priest said, and anger seized my heart,
for the trickster was and the king very soft,
who knew without a doubt that this was a mere animal,
taught by goblins, would suffocate girls to men,
230 but he was very afraid of the stupid, dull people,
so he would let an animal kill his daughter
if it wasn't a lucky coincidence, a swimmer brought us here.
Now the trumpeters blew their trumpets again in that procession,
and there the priests unlocked the gates of the temple with the cripple.
235 Immediately a monster leapt out, constantly changing form,
half like a polyp and half like an elephant,
disgusting, and when she saw him, the girl immediately fainted.
But I drew my phaser quickly from my pocket,
I quickly shot the monster with a stream of harmful rays.
240 Struck, she immediately became transparent like a mist,
and then she disappeared altogether, and the monster was no more.
Everyone who looked at it immediately fell silent, standing there silently.
But the main priest immediately began to wail loudly,
during which he beat his head (however, he didn't have hair to tear)
245 — but the interpreter Franta translated all those speeches —
“Oh woe, the stranger that killed the life-giver
Grg-rg-gra, the good god who brought us moisture here
and other things necessary for life brought us many things,
either that he killed him directly, or that he drove him out of the city himself,
250 away from our people, now we are sure of swift destruction.'
So said the man the priest and rage took hold of my heart,
when I heard that lie and vile wisdom vain,
and here I spoke to the priest in turn again with flying words
(however, the interpreter Franta translated all the speeches):
255 "You are lying, priest, when you say now that the monster was a god
and that she provided you with moisture and a favorable climate here.
This is where the dwarves trained to hug girls,
to destroy your people and kill all the women
younger ones who could give birth to your children here,
260 and so step by step they rid the village of children.

But I don't understand and I don't understand your soul
that you want to help destroy your own people and your own race.
Maybe the dwarves gave you wonderful treasures,
or you have a bitter grudge in your heart against all people,
265 that you have become a traitor to them and a deceiver to your own people.'
That's what I said and he retaliated with a cruel speech
(however, the interpreter Franta translated all the words):
"Wicked, stranger, you are, and quite a mad fool,
that you have now destroyed a divine and excellent animal for us.
270 But you don't have the possibility to turn things around here
even our people will not believe you, because you are just a foreigner,
for I always rule over them with my own words,
neither you nor the king with you will achieve anything,
for the dwarves will steal a new girl,
275 and the animal also makes the new one the object of exercise,
for the creature to love girls and kill all women
in all the people here — and that belongs to all of them here,
for they pinched me and all my fellows.
But now they will slowly perish here without generation,
280 just like the eunuch I and all the other priests.
But you can't take it all back.
The townspeople are all stupid and very gullible,
in all that I, or the other priests, said to them.
Even now they don't understand the things I tell you
285 although they are all true, because they are all simply stupid.

A king alone has knowledge as well as reason,
but he is a very soft and weak and cowardly man.
This is why we strongly rule the community here with priests."
Thus he spake to me with angry speech, and revolted my sweet heart,
290 and here I spoke to him in response again with powerful words:
"Die, wretched priest and traitor to your own people,
alone and at the same time with you also other fellow priests.
For I say nothing worse can happen
than when a person betrays the homeland to the enemies,
295 whether he does it for profit or for reasons of some revenge.
I don't even think that the people will remain stupid,
when I tell them all about this ancient beast,
either me or the king You die, you are disgusting to the highest degree!'
Thus I said, and immediately pulled the phaser from his thigh pocket,
300 aiming at him I also shot the vile priest,
I spurred the other, my excellent ones too,
so that the other priests also shoot their phasers.
Those who were hit immediately made it transparent like a fog
and then they disappeared altogether and there were no more men.


305 But the chief priest knew well what they would be like
the people there in that city and the infallible word he said to me:
When we killed all the priests there, as well as the monster,
and when we saved the king's daughter there, how fair,
the same one for which they wept like little children,
310 with a terrible shout now those people immediately rushed upon us,
trying to get hold of us, that abominable animal we killed,
which was in the habit of destroying their daughters by strangling them.
They were very numerous and we only had a few fejzers,
our ammunition wouldn't even last for the shooters,
315 how so many rushed; our rapid destruction was nearer.
Thinking thus in his mind and in his heart,
we started to run away from the city and run fast, but
but our robot Ivo, that terrible powerful warrior,
this our flight he covered there with his pernicious fejzers.
320 For he was not made of flesh, but of wrought iron,
shiny and very hard and difficult to fight with a weapon.
When many of them were killed, the robot took the fighting spirit of the people,
then he quickly runs himself and returned to our ship.
Unquenchable laughter rose here to the other species,
325 when I then told them all about those men.
This is what each man said to his fellow man:
"Oh alas, Captain Nemo wanted to do glorious deeds,
fight monsters and save the royal daughter,
get fame and a girl and half a kingdom to go with it
330 he performs valiant deeds, as it is written in the books,
but he was deceived there by evil men with a curse,
stupid and ignoble and greedy, shameless all.
In this way, the fact is always more disgusting than the rumor.'
But when the good fellows got over their laughter,
335 we entered the well-polished ship with a pleasant mind,
he narrowly escapes death and the hands of ungrateful men.
Right away the rocket propulsion propelled our good boat,
we flew up into space and left the alien planet.
From there we sailed on through the abysses of empty space,
340 looking for a way back to the part of the universe neighboring ours.


