"STARFLIGHTS SONG FOUR
(On Zoophytes)

To this planet we came on our stellar journey
(Seeking Mandyses and the sheep that watches the cosmos),
where beings lived peculiar to your sight, strange indeed,
resembling leaves or flowers and having varied shapes,
5 but could swiftly move like animals.
All were green, for they possessed chlorophyll
in their skin. Chlorophyll, this substance, was named
by learned men, having a highly complex chemical formula:
Fifty-five C's followed by seven H's,
10 then six O's and nine glorious M's.
The first type is similar to the second,
but it contains ten times more hydrogen,
yet both types are essentially the same.
Thanks to chlorophyll, they had no need for food,
15 for they could produce it through photosynthesis.
Wonderingly, we walked among these beings on that star,
gazing at various zoophytes with joyful minds.
It seemed to us like some flawless paradise,
a land where living beings need not slay one another,
20 where only the pure rays of the sun
and water and soil continually nourish them.
Thrice blessed are those creatures, yea, four times more,
who possess chlorophyll, for they have no need
of anger or fear, nor do they slay each other."

"While thus we spoke in winged words,
We walked the land and gazed upon the zoophytes.
Suddenly, a thérofyt, with thorns, leaped towards us,
Large and fearsome, like a running cactus.
It seized one of our good companions with its rypák,
30 Piercing his body. He screamed and writhed in agony,
But the thérofyt drained the blood from him,
Sucking the life from his body. In terror,
We struck the sucking monster with our fejzry,
And it, wounded, vanished like mist,
35 Leaving us unharmed. Quickly, we returned to the ship,
Carrying our injured comrade, whom the ship's doctor
Healed with his skill, as was fitting.
The rest of my faithful companions wished to leave the planet,
But my heart urged me to explore and understand it.
40 Curiosity and desire for knowledge
Seized my mind, compelling me to discover
The reason why thérofytes sought to kill each other
In battle, despite knowing how to produce food through photosynthesis.
After various requests and arguments,
50 I convinced two brave crew members
To accompany me and investigate further.
We donned sturdy armor, as spacefarers do
When danger threatens, and armed with fejzry,
We set out to explore once more.
55 We beheld many strange things there,
Many thérofytes of all sizes and shapes,
Beyond mortal imagining or comprehension.
Some were green in various shades,
While others were blue, black, yellow, or red.
60 These thérofytes wandered the land,
Contemplating destruction and sudden death
In myriad ways beyond mortal thought or experience.
We marveled at their diversity.
The land was dry and barren, troubled
65 By the intense sun, hotter than ours,
With its sharp rays. (But our clothing
Had built-in refrigeration.)
There seemed to be no source of water,
Only dry, desolate land, parched
70 By the relentless, warm wind,
Which dried everything quickly.
As I now realized, they had to extract
Juice from each other, as there was no water source.
Their ability to photosynthesize could not save them
75 Without the much-needed water."



However, a thought occurred to me regarding the thérofytes,
That at the very bottom of the food pyramid
(The food pyramid, as all zoologists call it)
There must be creatures that drink water directly,
Otherwise, it would not be possible to live in that land.
We set out to find these peculiar water-drinking creatures,
To lead us to where the spring of dark water was hidden,
Which did not seem evident to everyone,
Considering that thérofytes suck each other's juices,
Blood and bodily fluids, and bring destruction upon themselves.
We experienced many adventures on this journey,
Often thérofytes leapt at us, seeking our blood,
And we had to kill them with our fejzry.
We witnessed many strange things, beyond imagination,
But finding the source of water, the spring, was elusive.
Baffled, we returned to the ship in the evening.
In the morning, we set out again, searching for water,
But were greeted with mocking words from our good companions.
Eventually, we found those water drinkers, the foundation of the pyramid,
Innocent of the killings of other creatures.
There were holes in the dry, rocky ground,
Which other thérofytes could not dig,
Except for the water drinkers themselves.
Beneath these rocks lay a hidden, watery lake,
In which dwelled the water-drinking beings.
They emerged from the holes with their large ears,
Engaging in photosynthesis under the bright sun.
They also drank nitrogen directly from the air,
Not like plants on Earth,
Which must absorb nitrogen through their roots from the soil.
But swift predators lurked there,
Accustomed to catching the water drinkers.
And these predators were in turn preyed upon
By larger, stronger creatures, all for the sake of water,
And these were hunted by phytotheres.
Thus, we understood the food pyramid.
But my brave heart was moved to action,
To break through the rugged rock with my fejzr,
So that water might flow for all plant creatures,
So that they might learn to drink the dark water directly,
Together, without any more dark killings.
Immediately, I pulled my fejzr from my mighty leg,
And shattered the rock, which vanished like mist.
A life-giving stream gushed forth from the depths of the earth.
But we returned to our black ship,
Rejoicing that we had given water to the plant creatures,
And put an end to their anger and fear,
For eternity. But I, fool that I am, could not foresee
That the change in external circumstances alone
Cannot change the inner nature of creatures
And suddenly improve them, be they animals or humans.
And certainly not immediately.
We boarded the well-polished ship with pleasant thoughts,
Pleased with our erroneous thoughts about the thérofytes.
The rocket engine immediately propelled our good ship,
And we soared into space, leaving the alien planet behind.
From there, we sailed through the abysses of empty space,
Searching for Mandyse and the sheep that wanders the cosmos.
