STARVOYING CANTO SEVENTEEN
 (Of the robbers and the capture of Elefant
 and Franta)
 For too long we have sailed on through the abysses of empty space
 towards the butterfly star and the moon of Grogal the seer,
 ask where the sheep and Mandys can be found,
 escape from the robots stars, those rebels who are very grumpy.
 5 Suddenly here in the spaces of the cosmos we saw another big ship,
 and now, stopping the ship, I addressed the foreign vessel,
 and it started talking back to us on the radio,
 greeting and asking what we are the swimmers of the cosmos,
 a foreign language, which they do not properly use
 10 swimmers in this area, the one we ourselves knew,
 but where the international language is everywhere English,
 as in very many of those sci-fi movies, 
 that in the whole cosmos everyone there speaks English
 men, robots too and animals, surprisingly.
 15 Then he answered Franto and spoke back to them in response.
 This is how questions and answers were exchanged there.
 However, the swimmers of that ship, already we met on our way,
 they often changed the language they used to speak to us from afar,
 they themselves also apparently changed the speakers at the radio,
 20 but Franta himself always sent them an answer there.
 In the end, however, they said that an astronaut was waiting for them,
 and that they don't have any black doctors with them in the ship.
 Their captain himself then begged me and gave reasons,
 to send a doctor to them to examine the men
 25 and also to prescribe treatment, if it was still possible.
 However, the interpreter Franta translated all of them speech.
 Fooled by their words, I therefore sent a man to them,
 a doctor on our ship, he would help the swimmer.
 His name was Elefás, and everyone called him Elefás
 30 robots on our ship and my good fellows,
 but I had forgotten before that the famous name to be mentioned here.
 So the physician Elefás immediately entered the boat of the ship
 (the remaining one, because the cunning Kyptus stole from us the first)
 he has his bag in his hand, just as doctors carry in it
 35 their various preparations and various instruments of treatment,
 not alone, because the interpreter Franta was also walking with him.
 We then, having stopped our ship there in the cosmic void,
 waited for the boat to return and the comrades to return.
 Suddenly the foreign vessel began to move by itself,
 40 sailing very fast , and Franta on the radio
 sent es-ó-es and said that they had stolen him.
 Immediately my ship Tolma started chasing the vessel,
 we quickly flew there through the dark abyss of space.
 But now I want to say what Franta said later
 45 and also Elefás the doctor, what happened there in the black ship.
 The astronauts didn't have a doctor at all,
 but they only wanted to get hold of the linguist Franta,
 then sell him somewhere for a lot of money,
 because Franta was a translator of too many languages, 
 50 they were pirates, flying through the boundless cosmos
 aimlessly wandering here and there through the stars,
 setting up their lives and bringing misery to foreigners.
 At first they wanted to throw the doctor into the empty cosmos,
 but when they thought about it, another idea came to them council,
 55 either they will sell him as a slave to foreigners somewhere,
 or they will keep him and he will be their own captive.
 That is why they did not throw him there into the empty depths of space,
 but they kept him.Here Elefás danced in his heart.
 Taking possession of these two, they quickly propelled their ship,
 60 they sailed very fast through the abysses of the empty cosmos,
 but we rushed after them with the same speed.
 But the interpreter Franta with his bioradiophone,
 the one hidden he had in his body, like a belly,
 he told us everything he knew about the robbers.
 65 There were, however, strange creatures in that ship,
 they were all equal in size to the dwarf men,
 but they were hairy, but only short hairs. 
 Their color was said to be black except for their face, which was white,
 they also had a large head, but they were slender in body.
 70 Only two had limbs there as limbs too,
 but at the end of a buckle and they could grasp things,
 so exotic , but they were reasonable creatures.
 When they came, they aimed a phaser at Elefant and Franta,
 and immediately ordered Franta to translate the speeches.
 75 They told the doctor at first that it was all just a trick,
 to entice Franta to come to their ship .
 These we now began to pursue with sighs in our hearts,
 very cursing, for malice had taken possession of them all.
 Just like a hawk bird, when it drives a sparrow in front of it
 80 it flies very quickly, stretching its talons forward,
 it tries to seize and they both chase each other nimbly, 
 very fast fighting there after those pirate ships, 
 so Tolma also carried us, both men and robots too. 
 But now we began to catch up with the star vessel 
 85 of predatory beings, because we had greater speed. 
 They then, also seeing that we were already quite close to them,
 now shot the black boat with their phaser cannon.
 No harm was done, because the ship's shell was strong,
 anti-phaser and made with a complex technique,
 90 but the phaser shot shook our boat black.
 Annoyed, I ordered the robot gunner
 to shoot their running ship with a big phaser now.
 The gunner obeyed and aimed at their ship,
 he hit the ship hard and it shook all over,
 95 and a hole appeared there in its strong shell. 
 That's why I took the microphone of the ship's radio,
 I told Frant the robot there in the pirate ship,
 to speak to them now in their language, whatever it is,
 to give themselves up and return the good to their fellows,
 100 if they don't want to lose their lives , hit by a phaser.
 The robot Franta told them this, and they unwisely said:
 (however, the interpreter Franta sent us their answer)
 "If you hit our running ship with a phaser,
 not only here we ourselves will meet the black death,
 105 but the translator and also the healer, that man,
 very precious companions to you, as they are both also learned.
 Therefore, we give you impeccable advice so that you stop."
 However, I again ordered the robot to fire the phaser.
 The ship shook terribly , very bad
 110 and again the second crack in the shell appeared to be hard.
 Now I expected the robbers to give up immediately,
 but they had another cunning cunning in store.
 For they immediately shot through the black ship's screen
 with electromagnetic, which smart made by the mind,
 115 the ship disappeared from sight and was not even heard.
 We then, unable to see anything in front of us,
 thought that it had passed quickly and that it was ahead,
 speeding forward we sailed through the abysses of space.
 But the boat of those strange robber men
 120 stood still in place, and then returned,
 and they aimed it yonder towards the planets and their suns,
 which the robbers knew to be near the paths turn.
 Here they also found an asteroid, even though it was small,
 and on that asteroid they then landed a ship with a black one,
 125 in order to withdraw from the chase and make holes in the shell,
 but we in vain rushed away from them immeasurably by the cosmos.
 And while we raced there further through the immeasurable cosmos,
 then Franta and the doctor suffered terror and danger there on that star
 and barely escaped destruction.
 130 For there lived animals perhaps similar to earthly birds,
 large; they were wingless and mighty like horses.
 They had beaks large and terrible, very hard,
 like parrots or in the manner of eagles,
 but their wings were small and generally undeveloped,
 135 but they rushed powerfully, so that they could fly, 
 because the force of gravity is only weak on the asteroid
 so, being light, they rushed here and there
 with the power of their powerful legs and what I will also explain later.
 However, there was no air there on the asteroid either,
 140 but it appeared to be made entirely of snow and also ice,
 either it was made of it, or it was covered with snow to the depth.
 However, these birds ate the white snow there,
 and used part of the snow water as a drink,
 but they divided the other part there by electrolysis.
 145 And they took the hydrogen from that water in their stomachs,
 but on the other hand they used the oxygen for oxidation.
 Then, expelling the hydrogen from the anus violently,
 they flew very quickly there above the ground of the asteroid.
 This is how the power of nature always triumphs over difficulties, 
 150 but for food the birds ate each other,
 the larger ones ate the smaller ones in their hard life there.
 But when the birds saw the black boat land there,
 they immediately began to strip her shell with their hard beaks,
 but the robbers had no chance of defense ,
 155 when they shot phasers at them, because there were too many of those birds.
 But Elefás and Franta hid in our boat,
 because it seemed to be tougher than those ship robbers.
 Finally, those birds removed the shell from the ship there,
 he immediately escaped the air from that ship and the robbers left,
 160 the birds immediately gasped and ate quickly.
 But with that the electric curtain also stopped there.
 Franta the translator now began to broadcast es-ó-es there in the empty abyss of space with the radiophone.
 We however, during our voyages we caught his report,
 165 and then, joining with him, we sailed to save him also.
 However, when we finally came to the snowy asteroid,
 we shot the birds with powerful phasers, others then fled.
 Having then again made a small boat to our black ship,
 We joyfully received Franta and Elefant inside,
 170 with joy that we could avert their destruction after all.
 But of those birds the doctor shot one there with a bow;
 he killed it immediately with a poisoned arrow and took its body, 
 then he dissected the body and gained knowledge about birds,
 that birds split the snow by electrolysis,
 175 so that they could breathe oxygen and hydrogen to have something to drive,
 as I said before, singing that song.
 So nothing more wonderful than nature itself it isn't.
 However, we took that apparatus from the ship robbers,
 which spread a screen over the ship black
 180 electromagnetic, as I said before.
 But we propelled our vessel from the asteroid,
 we flew up into space and left the astroid behind.
 From there then we sailed thither through the chasms of the empty cosmos,
 towards the butterfly star and moon of Grogal the seer,
 185 narrowly escaping death and saving the good fellows.