

For a long time, we sailed through the boundless abysses of space
(seeking Mandy and the sheep that watches over the universe)
like poles in a fence — and no planet in sight,
only the black abyss, stars shining from afar.
Eventually, we arrived at a strange and foreign sun,
strange planets circled around it.
From these planets, we approached one that seemed
similar to our Earth: for a chemical sensor
selected it among all the others.
This planet, however, turned on a peculiar sight,
rotating around its axis once in the course of a year,
that is, as it traveled around the planet's sun
in a manner similar to how the Moon orbits the Earth's body.
On one half of the planet eternal night and a freezing climate prevail,
but on the other half there is eternal day and it is hot.
In the middle of neither, life can be sustained,
one is very hot and the other very cold,
but between the two lies a middle zone,
which has a suitable climate for life to exist.
Knowing this, we sailed to this zone on the ship,
and then, descending from above, we stopped the good ship.
Immediately, three of our companions jumped out of the ship onto the ground,
whom I sent out to the planet to find out,
what kind of beings inhabited the planet, whether they were food eaters,
whether they were wild and rebellious, as well as malicious,
or whether they were friendly and had a kind disposition.
They quickly walked and, seeing the strange land,
returned back and said that everything was good,
so we disembarked from the ship and looked at everything ourselves.
This middle zone also had beautiful plants,
there were large and magnificent flowers in this zone,
of various colors and shapes,
numerous and gigantic flowers were there, a strange sight to behold,
all of them smelled sweet. It was truly a delight for us.
There were also beings here, all of them winged,
resembling those hummingbirds, of various colors,
or those small winged creatures that are fond of flowers,
which the ancient Greeks long ago called "psýchai",
but nowadays they are called "lepidoptera".
These beings were similar to the creatures of that planet,
but much more beautiful and larger than ours.
But I cannot describe them with mere words;
they were strange and foreign beings from a special planet.
I will call them "butterflies" here, for brevity.
Around us, as we were there, these beautiful beings flew,
in all sorts of shapes and colors. It was a delight to watch,
and they sang sweetly to us, like birds,
but their language was their own and peculiar.
Franta the translator translated the whole song:
"Strangers, who are you? And where did you come from to this land
of ours? What reason leads you among the butterflies?
We are all gentle and peace-loving beings here,
who do nothing to anyone, whether they be a stranger or native
and born in this place."





We have no anger and no wars either,
for the struggle for life is entirely foreign and distant to us,
for we have no need to kill other beings:
indeed, we do not eat meat and we do not need to wear skins
for protection from the cold or any other necessity.
But here in the flowers, nutritious nectar is hidden,
there are plenty of them, we do not need to fight over flowers,
nor do we need clothes or skins,
for the air here is warm, and we also have fur on our bodies.
For us, there is no need to kill other beings.
We also have no anger or jealousy around love,
but we reproduce here without males, for we are maidens,
we have no desire or need to compete in love.
Nor do we really need to wield power:
We do not need a state or any organization,
for we have no necessity for either struggle or work,
so we have no need for leaders and organization.
Thus, we have no desire to rule, to dominate others,
but we live here freely, all of us living a free life,
lightly fluttering here and there among the flowers.
Therefore, we have no anger and no wars.
But, strangers, now have mercy, do nothing
harmful to the butterflies; for we are entirely harmless,
but it is pleasant for us to see you and to listen to your songs."
Thus spoke those beings, and Franta translated everything.
In response, I spoke in birdlike words:
— but Franta the interpreter translated all their speech,
singing their language with a sweet voice like a bird.
"Truly, you have no need to fear the cosmic sailors,
we have no evil intentions here, though we are strangers,
but we sail through boundless space for one reason only,
seeking that wretched thief who escaped us.
We stopped the good ship on this planet of yours,
for it is similar to ours, and therefore he could
have launched his good ship here.
But he is no longer here. We now look at you
and your flowers again as wonders.
Truly, it would be disgusting and miserable,
a man who wanted to harm the beautiful wings of the butterflies."
Thus I spoke: They rejoiced again,
and singing, they conveyed this message to me:
"We will give you wise advice about this fugitive man,
if you stay for a while and help with hands and weapons,
both you and your good companions, for we are very unhappy now."
("Franta the translator translated all those words.")
"In that cold and dark region, overall miserable,
hairy beings live, whom we call Grogals by name.
Grogals often invade this mild zone,
bringing us harm and destruction.
Now many of us beg you to protect us from them,
but if you do so, we will give you powerful advice."
Thus they spoke. My brave heart urged me
to help the butterflies and protect them from the evil Grogals.
Nor did any desire for advice enter my mind,
but I wanted to protect the butterflies from a cruel death.
Then I swore an oath to the butterflies to help them,
I commanded my companions to do the same with me.
Then we sat on the grass and waited for the Grogal men
(the butterflies had scouts and knew they were coming).



From that cold and dark land, which is always
turned away from the sun and its warm rays,
the Grogals came now, bringing destruction to the butterflies.
They were very hairy and resembled earthly dogs,
which earthly men often call "Djulax",
but they were bipeds and upright, like men,
but in their front paws, they carried spears and bows,
as the black men often did on our Earth,
or even earlier, the Achaeans with long hair.
They all arrived on sleds right up to the very border of that land,
where the cold region was covered with snow,
but their sleds were pulled by other hairy animals,
similar to the Grogals themselves, but walking on all fours.
They then, leaving the sleds still in the snowy place,
went themselves, along with the animals, to the butterflies.
They began shooting them with arrows from their bows, but so far, none had hit any,
for the butterflies were agile and the Grogals were slow.
But before they could hit any of those beautiful butterflies with their destructive arrows
and needlessly end their lives,
we, protecting souls, drew lasers from our pockets
(twofold: our lives and the lives of the excellent-shaped butterflies)
and began shooting destructive rays at the Grogals.
Hit, they immediately became transparent like mist
and then disappeared altogether, and the hairy ones were no more,
the bipedal Grogals and their quadrupedal animals.
Thus, technological progress always triumphs in every way.
Now the beautiful butterflies floated around with joyous flight,
thanking us with their pleasant song, with great, many words; and Franta translated everything.
But I, the captain, and my sailors, my companions,
we walked back to the well-built ship,
to rest and also to have food,
we also washed our bodies and enjoyed sweet sleep.
But when we woke up from our sweet sleep,
calling for the technician Burda and also the robot Tonda,
the one who also knew many complicated technical matters,
I ordered them to build there a self-growing fence
around the butterfly land, large and very strong,
for we had the technology to create the whole fence.
A self-growing fence is like another plant,
which grows on its own and heals all wounds.
So, I ordered to build such a fence around the butterfly land
to my companions, and they obeyed my command,
a fence for the butterflies and their defense as well.
If the Grogals were to come again, bringing destruction,
they could not overcome the high, very steep wall,
but the butterflies could fly over it,
but since the wall is made of plants and vegetables,
it could become a source of food for the Grogals
managing itself again: And they could stop hunting butterflies,
as they would no longer be hungry.
I said this to my companions, and they listened to my words.



They went out to build a wall, that robot Tonda and Burda,
and then in fourteen days by our earthly count,
they made a self-growing fence there with sighs in their hearts.
With joy, the butterflies then flew around the wall,
thanking us sailors with many sweet voices,
but now they also gave me advice, as they said before,
(Franta translated all their words)
"Advice, foreign father, we will now tell you in our language,
as we promised before when you provided protection for us.
One of the moons that revolves around the planet,
is capable of sustaining the dark life of the Grogals as well.
For the ancestors of the Grogals were wise and renowned
in sciences. The Grogals today, however, are foolish,
for they had no need to do anything themselves,
but they were served by robots and various technologies.
Thus, they degenerated and became foolish again,
and they can no longer even make machines themselves,
but have returned to a barbaric level.
However, we butterflies never produce anything,
neither robots nor machines, for we have no need for them at all,
but we only do what Muses are delightful works,
wise knowledge in the mind, and we have always had them,
except for technical matters and robots, androids as well.
But the ancestors of the Grogals there on one of our moons
densified their technology greatly, to the amazement,
so that they increased the force of gravity there as needed,
to sustain the air and also carry life.
There was also various workable iron on that moon
in the rock - in the way it is now called ore,
so they could produce air there by extracting it.
But the Grogals no longer know that technology.
The moon is now deserted, uninhabited,
all the Grogals have either escaped from it, knowing for a long time
how to travel through the starry space, or they have perished.
Only one Grogal man remained on the dense moon,
dead, covered in ice, and therefore intact,
he was a flawless seer and knew many things,
past, future, and those happening now,
with his powerful prophetic mind, or some god gave it to him.
If you find him on the moon, even though he is in the ice,
and if you stimulate his brain with enough electric current
there, he will tell you an irreversible prophecy,
unerring, about all the things you will ask of the man,
who is frozen in ice, for it is truly a great prophet."
Thus spoke the butterflies, and the interpreter translated the words.
I thanked them for it and accepted their advice.
I immediately urged my companions to board the ship again,
and I instructed the main robot to set the course for the next journey,
which this main robot was also my helmsman,
and I gave him the order on how to sail through the depths of space.
Immediately, the rocket propulsion propelled my good ship,
we ascended into space and left the foreign planet behind.
Then we came to the moon just as the swift-winged butterflies told us,
it was deserted, uninhabited.
That moon was small, but it had sufficient gravity,
for those ancestors of the Grogals knew how to densify it.
But it was also more curved and rounder than our Earth,
where we were accustomed to walking at home here and there.
Therefore, all things seemed many times larger,
as if they were much farther away than they actually were,
cliffs, hills, and rocks, and our good companions themselves,
all walked with giant steps as if they were giants,
but it was only an illusion of sight, as the moon was very curved.
We went to find the frozen man there somewhere on the moon.
We eventually found him frozen in ice
underground, in a vaulted cell, which was completely full
of ice, for it was cold inside, and larger than it was outside,
on the face of the moon, as it revolved around the planet.
But I do not want to explain the mechanics of those bodies here,
because critics are foolish in mathematics,
so they have no ability to understand anything that is said to them,
and for that reason, critics also get angry,
and then they also say that the matter is very boring.
We found the star navigator there frozen in the depths of the cell,
a large, hairy Grogal, a monster of a man,
larger, more massive than the Grogals down below,
whom we saw on the planet there in the battle frenzy.


His entire body was completely covered with thick fur,
but he had a beautiful face just like a human,
(others of the Grogals were hairy like dogs)
laying frozen in ice was the prophet man, resembling gods,
large and very hairy, his sacredness filled us with awe.
But when all of us companions had looked enough,
I gave the order to dig the prophet out of the ice again
with a pickaxe, which faintly glowed, and to ask the dead man.
Immediately taking the pickaxes in their mighty hands,
they dug, but the doctor meanwhile prepared everything
with the help of the technician Burda, to awaken the prophet.
When the prophet was unearthed, they placed ingenuity on his temples,
an invention now generally called electrodes by men of science,
and they began to stimulate his brain.
Immediately the frozen man, dead, began to speak,
as if a person would begin to speak from a dream,
slowly, with a deep voice, he began to speak in a language,
the ancient language of the Grogals, which had now died out again,
but even so, his speech was translated to us by the interpreter Franta.
"Why, angry stranger, do you wake me from sweet faintness?
Indeed, I would not want more life and its torment.
The best is not to come into being at all for all entities,
for all that exist in the cosmos, various forms of life,
and when they do come into being, to die as soon as possible
without knowing anything about the toils of living and its terrible pains,
which are always the fruits of life here."
So he spoke. To that I replied,
but the interpreter Franta translated my speech entirely.
"I have come, ruler, to ask you and earnestly request from you
prophecy, to speak of Mandys and his sheep
which follows the universe. He stole it with destructive intent
and now he still carries it through the empty, boundless cosmos,
threatening to destroy everything with his hideous mind."
... and then I told him everything about that sheep,
and I earnestly begged him for advice from the man.
The poor man laughed terribly and spoke in reply:
"Why, little man, do you want to save the entire universe here?
There are countless universes, and no one knows their number,
ours is just one of many, and there are countless others.
Indeed, it is not worth it, for all the universes are full
of suffering and all kinds of miseries as well,
but they do not even exist and only seem to be.
Fool, stranger, you are, to trouble yourself with the pains of the cosmos.
But I will tell you the prophecy, though I do not truly believe
that you will understand the essence of the prophecies, for you are too foolishs.
Mandys and his sheep you will find there once in the manure
and also in gold: But! that will be a huge journey for you.
But you will not seize it there with your mighty hands,
unless you first break through the fabric of time.
This is a certain prophecy for you. And now let me sleep again."
So spoke the prophetic voice and said nothing more to us,
even though we stimulated his brain and earnestly begged him,
only various mocking and vulgar remarks.
We then, bearing defeat, put him back into the ice,
inside, with great anger, for he actually told us nothing.
Boarding our polished and good ship,
we ascended into space and left the foreign moon behind.