STARFLIGHT SONG TEN
(On kangaroos and the capture
and escape of Mandys)
We arrived on the planet during our starry voyage,
where we came close to Mandys, that coward,
as well as cosmic sheep; but I did not know that at all,
neither did the captain nor any of my good companions.
Here in space, we immediately recognized that it harbored life,
so upon recognizing it, we sailed towards it,
descending our good ship upon it.
The creatures living here were similar to kangaroos,
which everyone on Earth calls "kangaroos,"
except for the Czechs, who have their own name for them,
and who also call these creatures "kangaroos."
These strange creatures on the planet resembled them,
but they were rational like mortal humans.
However, these kangaroos did not have well-built houses,
but dwelled only in arched huts,
just as people used to live on Earth in ancient times.
They also knew fire to keep warm in winter,
but their food consisted only of plants, like sheep.
On the other hand, they had a drink made from fermented milk,
which the creatures there always drank like wine or beer,
so they were always intoxicated, for all time.
They had milk from animals that were equivalent to our sheep,
and at first glance, it was impossible to tell the difference.
But the kangaroo men revered those sheep,
saying that the sheep tribe was divine,
because they were the givers of that milky wine,
which the kangaroos also revered as a divine drink,
as a source of joy and solace for all hardships.
Therefore, they greatly revered those sheep with dragging feet.
Among them were beings that are difficult to describe,
because they resembled no earthly beings.
They were small creatures, like five-year-old children,
upright, on two legs, and they also had arms of sorts,
paws with long claws, and black skin,
but they also had a trunk like earthly elephants.
But the kangaroos themselves carried these animals,
they always served them and called them "inspectors."

But it seemed to us that they were not performing any inspections,
but they were foolish and useless, as it seemed to us,
degenerates, who may have once ruled over those kangaroos,
and they continued to serve them, although they were completely stupid.
However, we only discovered all of this gradually over time.
First, those kangaroos came to the black ship,
greeting us warmly and asking for gifts from us
(in their kangaroo language: but Franta translated everything),
as is the custom of primitives throughout the universe,
just as it is on our Earth as well as on other planets.
We also gave them some trinkets, as is customary,
and they invited us to taste their wine.
So we went with them to their arched huts,
where the kangaroos live and where they graze their sheep,
not without weapons, as experience had taught us.
We all had excellent weapons hidden in our pockets,
which sci-fi writers call blasters in their writings.
But when we arrived at those arched huts,
we sat down in rows and drank the fermented wine
with the kangaroos, for they were hospitable to us.
Slowly, the wine took hold of our hearts, the givers of joy,
and of the friendly minds of those animals and men.
Now the ruler of the kangaroos began to ask us various questions
(but Franta translated all his speeches for us).
"Strangers, who are you, who descended from the sky to the earth?
Are you blessed gods, or mortals, like us only?
If you are blessed gods, then you know all the secrets,
but even if you are mortals, surely you are wiser than us,
for you have now descended to us from the sky on a black ship.
But now tell me, and the others, the mysterious deeds
of the sky sailors and the life-giving sheep.
For we, the kangaroo men, have a ancient prophecy,
that somewhere in the midst of the sheep there is a miraculous creature,
in which the entire universe has its beginning and its reason.
Therefore, we worship the sheep and always take care of them
as their guardians. We fear that it might die
and with it the whole universe, and therefore we worship the sheep
all in the same way, because we have no knowledge of a sheep
that carries the universe. So it is necessary to serve all equally.
But a certain other god came, or perhaps a man,
also descending from the sky like you, similar to you,
before. And he brought a sheep and left it among our sheep,
and then he ascended again into the clear sky.
I think this sheep must be the true one,
mysteriously carrying the universe and deserving all respect,
but now we do not know this sheep that it would be."
So spoke the ruler of the animals, and Franta translated his speech for us.
Then, listening, our hearts were stirred with courage
recognizing Mandys and the sheep that follows the universe.
Immediately I asked the chief about his appearance,
that star sailor who had brought the sheep to them,
but the ruler of the kangaroos spoke to me in reply:
"He was humpbacked and limping, and his head
was bald and round, and as for his nose,
it was huge and resembled a ripe fig,
and both his eyes were as big as balls."


So spoke the king of the kangaroos, and I immediately recognized
Mandys the despicable among all the men in the city,
who had ever stood watch over the sheep that follows the universe.
Immediately concern and dread seized me,
for I realized that the goal of our cosmic journey had come very close now,
because here on this planet was the sheep that follows the universe,
on this very planet, but I did not know which one it was,
nor did any of the kangaroos or any of the other men.
For it was that sheep, just like any other sheep.
Yet sheep herds were everywhere on all sides,
and so no opportunity seemed to arise because of the sheep,
but the ruler of the kangaroos told us another word,
that Mandys had given them gestures before he boarded his ship
indicating that he would return in a foreseeable time.
So I called a meeting and consulted with my companions,
and I decided to stay and await the arrival of Mandys.
He could not come secretly back to his black ship
because the loud noise and fire would reveal his arrival.
So we stayed there among the kangaroos,
drinking the fermented wine they made for themselves,
eating sheep cheese that we had prepared ourselves,
and also some nuts that were similar to chestnuts,
(because these kangaroos had no food
that would suit humans, but they ate grass and leaves).
Thus, drinking, we waited for the wicked Mandys.
We also set up guards on the steep mountain cliffs,
from among us and among the kangaroos, because necessity forced us to do so.
So we waited there for a full two weeks
(of course, Earth measures; for local ones were shorter).
But when the fifteenth day appeared in the distant Earth,
we saw a spacecraft flying close to us.
It was just a small skiff, only capable of holding one man,
but easy to control and fast in space travel.
The ship immediately landed on the plain and stopped there,
and the utterly repulsive Mandys emerged from the door;
as we looked at him, joy seized our hearts.
He went to the sheep, took one with a curly head,
and inserted its hind legs into his trousers,
then pulling down his pants, Mandys, to the very bottoms of his boots,
began to engage in obscene acts with the sheep, which was a sight to behold.
He did not steal the sheep, in order to destroy the universe,
but he stole it for himself for the pleasure of erotic acts.
So we, seizing the man and the sheep, caught them.
Uncontrollable laughter arose among all my good companions
because of this sheep and Mandys, who loved it,
and because the end of all our toil and danger had now come,
for we had Mandys and the sheep that follows the universe.
Thus our mission had now come to an end,
and the way back to Earth and home was now clear to us.
We threw the man bound in chains into a vaulted cave
along with the sheep itself and began to celebrate
by drinking excessively, we fools, as foolish as children.
But our drunkenness turned out to be very bitter.
Finally, completely drunk, we lay in that cave
in deep darkness of sleep and snored like pigs.
Suddenly, the noise of rockets woke up our minds—
we quickly ran outside and saw the spacecraft
flying into space; he had escaped me and my companions!
But the sheep was no longer in the arched hut,
the one that follows the universe. Mandys had obviously taken it with him.
We tore our hair and beat our heads violently,
unhappy, desperate completely, and the drunkenness disappeared from our minds.
We immediately fled and boarded the starship,
and the rocket engine propelled us into the depths of space.
Furious and relentless, we began to chase
the vile Mandys, the villain, and the sheep that follows the universe,
wondering all the while how he could have escaped.
But it was no secret, as it seemed.
The trunk-nosed animals had removed Mandys' bonds,
wanting to ride on him, as was their custom,
to ride on kangaroos and let themselves be carried by them.
They used to be their leaders and rulers at first,
but they degenerated and became completely incompetent,
the kangaroos carried them and also took care of them,
and they also called them "inspectors" in their language
for no reason at all, because they were meek in their minds.
They, having unbound him, then wanted to ride on Mandys,
but he shook them off and escaped, taking the sheep with him—
and so the wheel of fortune turns up and down.
We pursued Mandys in our star journey for nine days,
but we could not catch his fast ship.
But when the tenth day appeared in the distant Earth,
our ship arrived in the area of ​​some men
who knew technology and traveled through space themselves.
When they saw a foreign ship in their area,
they immediately ordered us to land on their planet
via the radio (and Franta translated everything),
inquiring about us in this way. And Mandys escaped from us again!
We tore our hair and beat our heads violently,
descending to the plain, we detained the good ship,
being thus taken captive, for dire necessity weighed heavily upon us.
And so the wheel of fortune turns up and down.


