STAR VOYAGES SONG THREE
(On Zobonoscis)

We then arrived on a planet during our starry journey
(Searching for Mandys and the sheep that surveys the cosmos),
Where beings lived, peculiar to behold,
With heads resembling ravens, but as for their bodies,
5 They were similar to mortal men, in calves, thighs, and legs,
Hands, speech, and thought, also in reason.
But when we landed our good ship on solid ground,
Descending from the sky and coming to a halt,
The beak-like men came to see and examine,
10 In great numbers. We all looked at them with astonishment.
Yet the beak-men did not intend to bring us harm,
To earthly men, but they all seemed hospitable,
Welcoming us to their land with polite words
In their cawing. Their speech was translated for us entirely.
15 We then walked to their city, accompanied by the raven-headed ones—
Not without weapons, for experience had taught us.
We all had in our pockets concealed excellent weapons,
Which science fiction writers call powerful "phasers."
Any whom the destructive rays of the phasers hit,
20 Would immediately disappear, and they would be no more,
Their body, as well as their soul and their splendid clothing.
Armed with these, men, we walked to the city,
But I had Franta with me, of many words,
The translator of them all, created by the power of reason.
25 However, their city did not seem to us, displeasing
To these beak-like men, for it was not grand at all,
But on the contrary, the houses in it were almost falling apart,
Many, with no glass in the windows and the roofs above
Full of holes, dirty and covered with green grass.
30 They led us into the main hall of a large empty house,
And when we were inside, they gave us benches to sit on,
They gave us some kind of drink, which was dreadful and disgusting,
They also gave us worms to eat, and also bugs,
Other disgusting arthropods, such as bedbugs, and also centipedes
35 Alive. Our stomachs turned at the thought.
However, no opportunity presented itself to the diners,
To upset the friendly beak-men,
For it was not appropriate to offend the zobonoscis,
People, of whom there were few, for they were many.
40 So we ate centipedes and sighed in our hearts.
But when we had consumed the food, and also the drinks
(It was very unpleasant for us, for many of our good companions
Secretly vomited there, though),
Then a priest or ruler, a beak-faced man, began to speak
45 And they all fell silent, sitting quietly,
But our translator translated his words for us.
"Listen to my speech now, you noble beak-faced men.
Now there are foreigners here with us, ugly and strange,
Body resembling mortal men, yet with heads
50 Of animals, that is indeed strange to behold.
They descended from the sky and saw our people and the city.
We have now paid them noble hospitality,
As is customary, and the gods strictly commanded us.
But now I fear lest there be a destructive sign.
55 Soon the Great Bright One will rise again into the sky,
Drawing white water again through all the channels,
To give us a divine prophecy, when someone asks for it.
So let us ascend to the observatory now, to know
The will of the clear god, and also to send
60 Guardians of the watery gates and those who work with them,
To ask a question now, for the Clear One to give an answer
And to tell us why he sent those monsters to the earth."
Thus spoke the man, the ruler, cawing, but again to us
Franta the translator translated his speech entirely,
65 Secretly, not openly, for he had done so with a quiet voice,
Hidden from the zobonoscis, who seemed gentle like animals
But unreasonable, yet he helped us here, making the translation.
From there, all the others were immediately in agreement with their ruler,
The beak-faced men, that it was necessary to learn the prophecy.
70 They then left the house and led us with them along the way.
And when we left the city, we came to a flat field,
Over which rose a certain hill, or perhaps a mountain.
It was quite high, and on it they had a lookout point.
The chieftain then climbed up that hill, and the other
75 Men resembling crows, and we walked with them as well.
Their strange sun began to set beyond the horizon,
Foreign, smaller and paler indeed
Than ours, to which I was accustomed to look at on our Earth.
But on that field, there were numerous water channels,
80 Very intricate, with many locks along them.
The ruler gestured with his hand, and some of the beak-faced men
Quickly ran across the field and unlocked a hut,
Which stood in the background and seemed to us to be a stable.
From that building, they led out onto the plain strange creatures
85 resembling very hairy and white rabbits, which
were as big and strong as horses with mighty hooves,
but they walked upright on the ground, just like humans,
they also had forearms and hands at their ends.
These rabbit-like creatures were led out by the beak-faced ones from the hall,
90 they climbed onto their shoulders, just like children on Earth,
when they play in the pasture and carry each other
on their shoulders there, like horses: Similarly,
the beak-faced ones themselves rode on the rabbit-like creatures,
they set off running on the plain and along the banks of many canals.
95 We, looking at it, didn't understand anything,
as if we were dull, because everything was new to us.
But the high priest stretched out his hands to the east
in prayer. The others immediately imitated him, the beak-faced ones.
Suddenly light appeared like spirits; it began to emerge
100 above the horizon of the planet, a satellite, which you could call a moon
by analogy with Luna on our Earth,
but it seemed to us to be much larger than that moon.
That rising Luna shone powerfully, and the men
citizens of the beak-faced ones raised their arms in prayer to it.
105 From then on, the light became as bright as it is during the day,
bright, all shadows became short and black.
As we stood there, we felt the moon's power
pulling us all upwards, towards the heavens,
and making us lighter. That seemed very strange to us.
110 Immediately, water in all the channels flowed here and there,
gates, locks, gates, and dams built
opened and closed automatically,
as the moon's force pulled the water behind it.
But the beak-faced ones prayed to the giver of lightness,
115 to answer them and reveal the infallible will,
to say what they should do with the animal men
who fell from the sky to them, as if it were the will of the gods
(the translator then translated all those words for us).
But shortly afterwards, those beak-faced ones,
120 who rode on rabbits, returned to the top of the hill
of the lookout, and in their hands, they carried ornamental staffs
like heralds, and they spoke to the high priest
with words of destruction about us, but that artificial animal,
Franta the translator, translated them with the power of his mind.
"Great commands that must be fulfilled:
Kill all those hideous strangers with animal heads
now with sharp swords, for they bring great misfortune upon us.
They were not created by those immortal gods
of the good heavens, but are creatures of the vile ruler,
130 who loves evil and dwells in the depths of the abyss."
They said this. Then the beak-faced ones rushed at us with a great cry,
holding many sharpened swords in their hands.
But to defend our lives and drawing fazers from our pockets,
we began to cast destructive rays at the beak-faced ones.
135 Hit, they immediately became translucent like mist
and then disappeared completely, and there were no more of those men.
However, no chance showed itself in battle for us,
for there were many against us, and even more of them
ran to the very top of that sacred hill,
140 throwing stones at us and shooting arrows from bows,
without the fazers having enough ammunition
for the incoming multitude; our destruction was imminent.
We, lamenting, tried to pray,
if perhaps some god might be alive in the depths of the cosmos,
145 but even so, no chance appeared for those who prayed.
Suddenly a solution came to us without signs and hope.
A mighty flock flew through the air to the mighty hill
of strange beings, somewhat similar to the beak-faced ones,
rather vampires, with membranous wings from ankle to wrist.
150 Waving, they flew towards the steep hill.
On foot, they hurled rocks and arrows at them fiercely,
but the aerial creatures spat disgusting saliva from their beaks
on them, which was thick, very disgusting.
Whoever was hit by the disgusting saliva from the beaks
155 in the eyes, could no longer see and, of course, fight further.
Some threw those disgusting spits, but others
seized us and carried us away from the hilltop
and took us to the high peaks of the mountains,
where they had their city, inaccessible, impregnable.
160 However, the flying beak-faces did not intend to prepare such a harsh fate
for the men, for enemies are always the foot-soldiers
of the beak-faces. When they saw, they saved us.
They led us into a great hall and to their own king.
As we came to him, he received and also addressed us
165 in a foreign, unknown language, which no one understood,
but the translator translated that speech for us as well.
Responding to him, I told everything properly.
He rejoiced and seated everyone on benches,
ordered them to bring us food and drink immediately.
170 We, feeling disgust, awaited the wretched food,
remembering centipedes and worms that the foot-soldiers gave us.
But the hosts here were much better by far;
they gave us good food and also wine, as befits hosts.
The ruler of the flying beaks also explained to us
175 the puzzle of the many channels and locks, their meaning.
We, listening, marveled at the strange parts.
For it was indeed a water system of those doors and gates,
as well as of large pipes and pistons, and also channels
a gigantic computer that calculated the water, strangely.
180 ("Computer" they call it by the name of the British men,
but the Greeks call it "hypologistés.")
It was powered by the force of the moon's gravity alone,
for it is so great that it pulls the water behind it,
185 and it is strongest at the full and new moon,
and then the computer calculates the best."
"This computer, our ancestors, who have long since perished,
and are no longer among us, created.
They inserted various complex programs into it.
190 In this way, they wanted to regulate life for all of us,
both our private lives and common affairs,
the time for plowing, sowing, and then harvesting.
But our ancestors did not reveal to their descendants
the reason and purpose of this very complex computer,
195 but instead said that it was a great divine work,
which communicates their will, and they made the moon a god.
They feared that someone might change the way of life,
or that some harmful law might be given to the numerous citizens.
However, the computer gradually corrupted time itself,
200 because many channels became clogged with evil algae,
and various gates no longer operated as the water commanded,
opening and closing according to the logical laws of order.
The computer began to pronounce corrupt judgments,
dogmas, and foolish decisions.
205 However, the beak-faced ones divided into two camps:
those who were foot soldiers always listened to the messages,
but the winged ones already knew that they were delusions.
In this way, resentment also arose among the beak-faced men,
as well as conflict, and the flyers and foot soldiers still wage war.
210 No ceasefire could ever arise here,
because the deranged computer incites the foot soldiers to war."
The ruler spoke to us and continued:
"If someone could repair this destructive machine,
it would put an end to war and all deceit.
215 However, we have lost the knowledge of how to do it.
Truly, we have written down the schematics of all these things,
which our ancient ancestors communicated so intricately.
But I, strangers, now ask you in my own words,
to help us and repair the water computer.
220 In this way, peace and prosperity will return to our land
once again. Therefore, I ask you for the sake of our people."
"That's what he said. Then we all discussed here and there,
whether perhaps, upon returning to our beloved ship,
we should board it and ignite the rocket propulsion,
225 fly upwards into the sky, and leave the beak-faced men,
or stay in place and repair the gates and canals.
Ultimately, it seemed better to us to stay in this place
and help the beak-faced men,
because the winged ones also saved our lives.
230 But I wanted to know how that computer was made.
Immediately, the noble men brought in those membranes,
the ones we began to examine closely.
Our chief ship engineer, whom we had with us,
took the lead in the discussion,
235 his mind well-versed in intricate matters.
His name was Burda, and among all of us,
he was foremost in electronic science that I had ever known.
I sent him with scrolls to the plain
with two armed guards, equipped with phasers,
to inspect the canals and all the gates and doors,
240 which ones were still good and which ones were bad.
They all wore masks resembling those of the beak-faced foot soldiers.
But the winged men also watched them from above.
Burda, after inspecting the hydraulic computer,
returned with the others to the capital of the flyers
without harm, unseen by anyone and untouched by anything.
On that first day, we carried out the necessary work
for the beak-faced ones. And then we lay down in the great hall
to rest a little and enjoy sweet sleep.
250 When dawn appeared with rosy fingers
(it seemed larger than the one on Earth),
the beak-faced men flew to the plain,
taking Burda with them, who led the work.
They descended into the computer, which was powered by water,
255 and set about correcting the fatal and cruel errors of the machine;
and a sacred power ruled over Burda there.
They returned in the evening unharmed and unnoticed,
very tired, but they had finished everything.
The king rejoiced and warmly thanked us,
260 hoping that the conflict would end and prosperity would return.
We rejoiced in that and reveled in a splendid feast,
sitting together and enjoying meat, sweets, and wine,
until sunrise the next morning."
"As dawn appeared with rosy fingers
265 (alien, appearing larger than the one on Earth),
we boarded our well-polished ship with pleasant minds,
narrowly escaping death and offering aid to the beak-faced ones.
Immediately, the rocket propulsion propelled our good ship,
and we soared up into space, leaving the foreign planet behind.
270 From there, we sailed on through the void of space,
searching for Mandys and the sheep that watches the universe."





