"THE VOYAGES OF THE STARS, SECOND SONG
(On Lesbians)
However, as we sailed through the abysses of the empty cosmos,
searching for Mandys and the sheep that watches the universe,
we came to a foreign sun and a strange sight,
strange planets revolving around it.
From these planets, we found one that seemed
similar to Earth: so we descended upon it from above,
lowering ourselves to the ground, anchoring our good ship.
But now, choosing two of the best among all,
I sent them into the land to go and observe, to find out,
what kind of beings inhabited that land, their eating habits,
whether they were wild and arrogant, or malicious,
or whether they were friendly and had gentle minds.
They quickly ventured forth and soon spotted the foreign city,
immediately entering through its polished gates.
But as they entered inside, disaster befell them abruptly,
for that planet was held by a tribe of lesbian women,
whom all men greatly abhorred.
They swiftly leaped upon and captured my good comrades,
and after torturing them, they cruelly killed them with metal.
But first, they questioned them about the well-built ship
and about us, all of which my unfortunate comrades disclosed.
(For even the lesbian women had a universal translator,
which could understand the language of those men.)
As soon as the lesbian women learned about the men,
they rejoiced and swiftly prepared our downfall."

"They immediately adorned themselves with beautiful and rare garments,
golden rings, and many other ornaments around their necks,
they styled their hair and reddened their lips.
They proceeded to our black ship, carrying death along the way.
But when they arrived at the spot and reached our black ship,
they stood outside and sang with beautiful voices,
as if welcoming us, and sweetly smiling as well.
Upon seeing them, we immediately rejoiced in our hearts,
and without weapons, we disembarked from the ship onto the land.
However, the lesbian women refused to unite in love,
instead, they suddenly drew swords from their plump thighs,
which they carried hidden beneath their colorful robes,
and they attacked us unsuspecting men, unarmed,
and then scolding us, unwillingly led us into the city.
And when they arrived in the city, they threw us into a vile prison,
unfortunate all, surrounded by thick bars all around,
like the manner in which wild animals are kept in captivity,
indeed: and the prison is commonly called a cage.
There, the lesbian women guarded us all locked up,
in the middle of their square, and went to inform others,
blowing on mighty trumpets and beating drums.
And then the lesbian women came from here and there
to their city's square, to find out what was happening.
Unquenchable laughter rose among the lesbian women,
when they saw excellent men in cages and shackles
in the marketplace. It seemed to them the greatest joy."

Men and also male animals are repugnant to them
all. Those women are very jealous of male organs.
Immediately the two men quickly took them out of the cage,
55 of their clothes they took off and tortured them afterwards
long. From dawn to sunset
horribly wailing. But those lesbian women
they sat on the ground around and looked sullenly into the theater,
they happily ate the excellent feast.*
60 However, when the pleasures of men were enough with torment,
wanting to kill the two already with a cruel metal,
they cut the natural ones and let all the blood flow out.

And when they were both killed, they went their separate ways again,
to return home and sleep sweetly
65 the sun went down and dusk came dark.
We then mournfully waited for the clear dawn.
A pink-fingered dawn appeared with the dawn of childbirth
(alien, bigger than ours seemed to our eyes),
here, lesbian women were returning to the market again
70 fun-seeking and spiteful torture of men.
They came here in the morning and brooded perniciously in the mind,
countless. Then we were heartbroken again.
Among them, there reigned an impeccable queen woman
beautiful and tall in stature and clothed in gold all over
75 robe, and she also held a golden scepter in her hand.
When she came to the market, she immediately sat down on a very decorative one
the throne. Immediately the maids also poured fiery wine for her.
She gave a sign with her wand. Here women, clad in armor,
they selected two men and took them and dragged them out again
80 from the cage and immediately they started stripping them of their clothes again.
We then wailed and tried to pray,
if a god were alive in the depths of space,
but even so, no possibility appeared to the prayers.
But suddenly she appeared, whom he did not expect, nobody knew her.
85 The old woman somehow got up and cried out in a sharp voice.
Immediately the lesbian women stood up there in the square
numerous, sharp swords were all waving in their hands.
On others with a great cry they rushed, bringing death to them,
those who were without weapons. That, fools, they could not have guessed,
90 that the companions themselves are now plotting their destruction.

They fled with a terrible scream and each one scattered to another place
of girls unarmed. But you with sharp swords
they were driven violently and slashing limbs hither and thither
they beat them mercilessly and dark blood flowed everywhere.
95 The queen herself was attacked by a large figure
floats She defended herself with a mighty scepter, beating against her,
but in the end there was no defense for her.
Jumping up against her, she threw her to the ground and sharp
She raised her sword against the wretch and said the words:
100 (I wouldn't have understood that myself, but he certainly helped me with that
of all languages ​​the translator who translated those words for me.)
"Die now, terrible bitch, because you killed a good man
without any cause wholly and solely that they are men,
stronger, bigger in stature and have male organs.
105 For these jealous things you have killed excellent men.
Now I'll kill you, but before I do, right?
I'll show you that you're just like other women
which are always meant to serve men throughout the cosmos."

She said, suddenly pulling out a drink from behind her dress
110 large and very thick. I looked at it in amazement,
for a girl with beautiful braids took it out of her clothes.
Immediately the ruler lifted the dress of its golden fabric
and then, stepping on it, she already entered the erotic gate
after that she started fornicating. And after her the second and the virgins
115 with swords, suddenly they all took out their male organs,
they committed violent fornication with the vanquished ones.
However, when they finished with those who did not want, the erotic works,
then they killed the girls quickly with a cruel metal,
all of them, one after the other, it was disgusting to look at.
120 However, when those abominable deeds are ended everywhere now,
some went to the prison and unlocked its doors,
from which then I and the good fellows came forth,
we gave thanks to the girls who were like men,
the other two comrades then both stood next to me.
125 Another girl led us as far as the ruler of the throne,
on which now sat the old woman of venerable features,
whichever jumped first started the bloodshed.
She was sitting on him now, holding a scepter in her hands
new as a ruler, and glory has covered her head.
130 When we came before her, she examined us, asked questions
in a foreign language that none of us knew,
but the universal translator translated her speech for us.
“Foreigners, who are you? Where are you sailing through hollow space?
Do you have a goal or are you just wandering around in vain?
135 as robbers through the planets hither and thither,
setting up his life and bringing misery to strangers?'
So she said, then I spoke again in response
but in our language: the translator translated everything.
“No Mistress, now we did not come with bad intentions
140 to your planet here. And we are no robbers either,
but the guardians of the city that lies far away.

We live on a planet called Earth,
distant from you and foreign; and a distant cosmic pilgrimage
I came to your village and to your bright planet,
145 where you rule, with your ship and your good fellows.
We are looking for a man, the fleeing thief.
The rulers sent us and sternly commanded me,
don't come home before we catch the thief.
However, now that we have come to this planet of yours here,
150 bad caught us girls and some lesbian women,
they took us unsuspecting and unarmed
and of us four men they killed at once in a vile manner,
first of the two men whom I sent to the city,
and then another two there, which they chose from among the other men.
155 But they didn't kill right away, as they should,
but they tormented them long until the bright sun went down,
with pleasure. Finally, they also cut off their male organs.
The rest of us, however, have been thrown into a wretched cage,
to keep us there and we became their victims.
160 In this way swift doom would take us,
if the lesbian virgins were not lost themselves
by your fighting women hermaphrodites,
wherefore I give thanks to thee and to all the other maidens.'
So I said and the translator translated my words.

165 I said that, and in response the venerable old woman said:
(in a foreign language, the translator translated it again)
"These, stranger, are not the hermaphrodite women,
but the young men who disguised themselves in women's disguises,
I will tell you all this if he will listen,
170 about that victory of ours and science and about crafty deeds,
for surely we know each other well in all these things.
But go now to the swift ship, and take your fellows with you,
to rest and also to take food,
they also washed the body and slept sweetly.
175 We will hold a wonderful feast here in the square in the evening
celebrating victory and magnanimous freedom.
To this now I invite you and all other species,
and when we are fermenting, I will tell you here, if you want to hear it.'
Talking like this, we took turns talking to each other.
180 But I left then in a well-built ship,
to rest and also to take food,
he also washed his body and slept sweetly,
myself, and the good fellows also followed me.

However, when the sun had already set there was a sacred light
185 (strange faith and strange, because the sun was great),
we went from the ship to the market again to ferment the feast.
They have already carried away the dead, the battered bodies of all those
from the square to somewhere else, and the blood was also washed away by the dark one.
There were tables and benches all over the square,
190 where all through the night enjoyed a splendid feast,
maidens and men they, when the maidens cast off their disguise.
They also had excellent electric lights there
shining very brightly and in the sky also shone:
The stars shone abundantly, and the four moons too
195 beautiful and large they were and bigger than the moon on Earth,
so there was light almost as if it were daytime.
We then sat down and ate meat and sweets and wine.
However, I shared the table with the old woman who was there
ruler, and she then told me all about all things,
200 but the all-translator translated all those speeches.
"Stranger, you ask me about things and affairs
around the lesbians of those killed, how everything happened.
So I will tell you, but it will be a long message.
But where do I start and what should I say first?
205 It is indeed a complex matter and difficult to tell.
First, stranger, I'll tell you the basics about myself:
Tethis is my name and I am also called Tethis
people everywhere and also my faithful companions.
And I'm a biologist and genetic engineer,
210 I also did not originate here on this malefic planet.
I also landed on that one once on a dark ship
having been sent hither alone by men who already have the government;
I had a task to exterminate all the lesbians.

Those from this planet, where they all lived for a long time
215 and whom they called Lesbos, and this was the name they gave her,
spread propaganda on everyone's other planets
of ours that revolve here around our sun.
They had a powerful radio station here
bigger and stronger also and louder, surely not weaker,
220 than the ones used by others to communicate.
They used this disgusting propaganda to spread to us,
for men to kill themselves and women to rule themselves.
'Arise quickly, you virgins and women of beautiful braids,
to kill the man and get your freedom.
225 But we don't need those hairy, smelly guys
neither for childbearing nor for pleasure, but all that
after all, we can make a single-sex arrangement ourselves.
You will have all of this, which only we are able to tell you,
once killed all the animals will be males
230 on your planet too. But hurry up to fight.'
So, from afar, here speaking with malignant words
they spread propaganda on that cowardly radio.
The men who heard this were immediately afraid and angry.
Although the planets here are mostly girls and women
235 the rest were threatened by these words of the squadron of lesbian girls,
which also seemed to them, though terrible, ridiculous,
the rulers knew well that the man-killers of these women
they prevailed over them, even though they were fewer in number
than normal women, and then all of them killed men
240 on the other planet Lesbos; and they were afraid to do it too
on others there were no stars — it seemed to them to be death.
That's why they also sent me to the planet of lesbian women
secretly, not openly, I would bring them destruction there.


Which I could not possibly have done in a short time,
245 but the preparation itself required many years,
twenty-five whole years before men were born again
and before they grew again they would kill whomever I wanted.
Now I will tell you about my practice and technique.
All the lesbian women here on Lesbo have killed men
250 planet, normal women then subjugated with their power.
No normal maiden could confess either
to the desire to share a bed with a man who is the donor of children,
but they all pretended to be lesbian women too,
they feared the sharp whip and steel very bitter,
255 then they used to lie secretly and covertly with the male animals,
rams, goats, and dogs, and also with tame lions,
with all animals at all only when they were males.
But on the outside they were apparently pairing up with girls,
as a marriage, because that was the way under the man-killers.
260 If any of the girls here wanted to give birth to a child,
all this was done artificially with science and technology.
They took the eggs there from the woman's hidden entrails
and then from the one with which she was connected, others took eggs.
They took out the core from one and put it in the other:
265 immediately the impregnation took place, to a strange sight,
without a man present. All this happened with technology.
Then they gave it in the womb to the one who wanted it
of two united women to carry and give birth to a child.
In this way, therefore, children were born without men,
270 all female, because the Ypsilon chromosome was missing.
However, animal lovers have already had their fun
but as covertly and secretly as the mind prompted them.
It was hard and difficult to guard those things with the beasts,
so, being weary, they let them join them.
275 From that, the solution came to me, how to arrange everything, in my mind.
First with ordinary, normal women
I socialized a lot and made friends,
secretly, not openly, because everyone was afraid of lesbians.
But as soon as the normal virgins began to believe me,
280 then I called a meeting and addressed my comrades,
she explained everything to them and revealed the secret plans
uprising; they all nodded and swore in agreement,
that they will help me in this struggle of mine with word and deed.

Then I told the sworn ones other things
285 and that's how we were preparing the destruction of those terrible lesbians.
There was one beautifully made house in the metropolis,
which is often called a museum.
Some men were also dead in this museum
stored there in the ice, they wouldn't rot there,
290 as an extinct species and former, surprisingly.
However, one of the normal women was guarding the house in this one
museu: it seemed to us a well-established chance.
I entered the house at night and she unlocked the door for me
the maid house watcher (they also call the custodians
295 in that Latin word there on Earth, your planet).
Then when we came to the hall where the frozen men were,
loading them in ice so they wouldn't rot there,
that's when the guard unlocked my closet with them.
But I, drawing that sharp knife from my pocket,
I immediately cut out the testicles of 300 of these dead men,
putting them in my pocket again, I went out. Housekeeper
she did everything like before, locked it after that too.
Later on, I chose good and tame dogs,
small, not large, because they had to be hidden quickly,
305 I then put testicles in the bodies of those men
a complex procedure — the work was difficult.
However, when I then inserted the male testicles into the dogs
happily and you have already healed from the bitter wound,
I then led them there to those normal women,
310 to enter into them and unite with them in love.
They had human testicles and therefore male sperm
the dead. In this way, the dead gave birth to the living.
Immediately, many virgins became pregnant in this way
half, not all, because it was necessary to dream,
315 that half of them wore and the other, on the contrary, gave
from the egg cell nucleus, as was the custom of lesbians.

But after the family had already given birth to dead parents,
half of them were girls and the other half
male children, I had joy in my heart.
320 They also raised those mothers in a secret way,
but they disguised them as girls all the time.
But they did not lack the male element during their education,
because lesbian women raised their daughters
in all manners of fighting and all martial exercises.
325 Then when they all grew up and there were enough of them to count,
as many secret men as man-killing women,
young lesbians are soldiers and policewomen,
then we rebelled and killed the destroyers of men
all that wanted to change the entire nature of the cosmos.
330 Now we are all free on this planet's soil
men as well as women, as both parties please.
But you, stranger, rejoice that you narrowly escaped destruction
myself and your comrades, we also rejoice now.”
We fermented like this all night long in perfect kvass
335 the program, all sitting down — the meat and the sweet and the wine.
Zora, when she was born in the morning, appeared with pink fingers
(alien, bigger than ours appeared to our eyes),
we entered the well-polished ship with a sigh in our hearts
he narrowly escapes death and the good lose all their fellows.
340 Immediately the rocket propulsion propelled our good boat,
we flew up into space and left the alien planet.
From there we sailed there through the abysses of empty space
Looking for Mandys and the sheep that watches the universe.