STAR VOYAGES SONG FOURTEEN
(Astronauts' Assembly. Recreational Planet.
Kypto's Villainy and His Pursuit)

Many again we sailed through the vast boundless cosmos
(Seeking Mandys and the sheep that watches the universe),
many strange planets we men also saw,
wonders of diverse nature, which I cannot even tell,
5 many dangers also suffered by my good comrades.
For five earthly years thus we men sailed,
seeking Mandys and the sheep that watches the universe,
yet no opportunity presented itself to the seekers.
But when the sixth year on Earth began,
10 then I called a meeting and addressed my companions:
"Listen now to my speech, all you good comrades;
the search for Mandys and the sheep may not yield results,
but now is an opportune time to consider
whether we should abandon the search and return to Earth,
15 or whether to stay here and continue chasing the sheep.
But to me, when I ponder this, two-fold counsel appears:
If we were to return to Earth without the sheep,
undoubtedly the rulers would immediately throw us in prison,
and so the danger would persist for ages,
20 that sheep, Mandys, could destroy the entire universe
and all creation with it.
But if we stay here and continue to hunt the sheep,
I fear that the task cannot be easily accomplished,
for truly boundless is the universe,
25 and within it are countless galaxies and stars —
suns — around which orbit countless planets.
There is no possibility of finding one creature among them,
only perhaps by chance. Such a notion is utterly foolish.
So, if we have no possibility of returning to Earth,
30 nor do we have any chance of finding the sheep in the depths,
let us now return to that planet and the moon,
where the frozen prophet still lies in the ice,
to tell us where to find the man and the sheep,
and to cut that time-thread fabric into two,
35 as the frozen Grogalos prophesied to us,
but then refused to tell us more about it,
when we unearthed him from the ice, cosmic wolves.
But now it is necessary to dig him out of the ice again,
if Grogalos will tell us something sensible.
40 This hairy prophet is our last chance
to come to where Mandys and the sheep are, and to find them."
So I spoke; they all fell silent, sitting quietly.


From among them, a cunning and despicable man began to speak,
whom the good comrades called "Kypta" by name;
he once led a rebellion against me on a black ship,
but he was shaken by the cosmobion and his heart was calmed,
and now he began to attack me powerfully with words:

"You are surely foolish, Nemo, to urge us to continue searching
for the Mandyse man and the sheep that watches the universe,
just as the rulers on Mother Earth commanded you.
But they are far away and cannot know anything,
nor can they punish anyone, for we are now in the depths of space.

Well, let us now abandon the search for the Mandyse man,
utterly useless as it is, for surely we cannot catch him,
as galaxies are countless, and within them are stars - suns,
and planets around them are also countless.
We have no chance of finding a single animal there.

But I do not even think that Mandys wants to kill the sheep,
for he needs her and has made her his companion,
as we ourselves saw on the planet of kangaroos.
But even if Mandys were to kill the sheep out of bitterness
and come to hate life, he would then destroy the entire empty
and boundless universe, and we cosmic sailors would also perish,
knowing nothing and feeling nothing, so it would no longer matter to us.

Whether in this way or that, we have no concern.
Well, let us quickly abandon all foolish searches now,
and send the ship further into the depths of empty space,
to the planet Útopos, where sausages grow on branches,
beer flows in rivers, and everyone copulates with everyone else.

Let us live on this planet without worries,
forgetting about Mandyse and the sheep that watches the universe."
At that moment, all the others agreed with the comrades,
forgetting the search and steering the starship towards the planet Útopos,
where sausages grow on branches, beer flows in rivers,
and everyone copulates with everyone else.

To them, mocking, I spoke these winged words:
"You are foolish, my dear, to believe Kypta now."

"You talk of the Star of Utopia and yet you know nothing,
that the name of that planet signifies it is nowhere -"
and then I explained to them the meaning of the names
from the words of the Argeians' language - (know now, dear reader,
that by that language alone this epic is composed,
but that we, the star sailors, had a different language).
Unquenchable laughter arose among my good comrades,
when they recognized Kypta for the uneducated fool he was.
He then blushed deeply, sat down strongly, greatly troubled
by the ridicule of the other men and hidden anger seized his heart.

Having triumphed over Kypta, I began to speak again:
"Listen now to my speech, all of you, to what I want to tell you.
In one thing, Kypta seems to be reasonable,
when he urges us to pause in our cosmic voyage.
For five years now we have sailed through the abysses of empty space,
star sailors, and our strong hearts have been greatly crushed.
For I say, there is perhaps nothing worse in the world
than to crush even a strong man over the empty abyss of space.
But it is also not fitting to abandon the search for the sheep,
as we once promised to those rulers, we noble men,
for I say that there is nothing more abominable and shameful
than when a man breaks his word given to others.
But a piece of advice has also come to me, and now listen all.
I know of a planet, which is beautiful, very delightful,
not too far from our path, but close, and on it the climate
is as pleasant as that of islands in the Caribbean Sea.
The air there is warm, but not too much, and its sun
warms the lovely landscape with friendly rays,
there grow various trees, tall palms bearing fruits
of various kinds, beautiful to behold, fresh,
there are delightful meadows and springs, beautiful flowers.
Also on this planet there is a warm sea,
transparent, beautiful and clean, resembling sapphire in color,
very pleasant to swim in it and to rest on the beach.
There are beautiful birds, so much so that it is marvelous to behold,
various shining insects and other numerous animals.
But no evil creature dwells there on the orbit.
Also, rational beings, similar to humans,
live in that clear sea, and are kind-hearted to travelers.
Thus, it is a most delightful planet, closest of all
existing planets, to that planet, which is nowhere,
Útopos, to which Kypta here urged you to fly.
Having stopped there and rested on it,
let us then sail back to the butterfly star and that moon of theirs,
until we are strengthened, so that we may ask there
Grogal, the hairy one, the frozen prophet,
where we would find Mandys and the sheep that watches the universe."
So I spoke, and all my comrades agreed with me,
to do everything as I, the captain, advised.
The miserable Kypta did not like the advice in his heart,
but now he had spent his anger for today.
But to the helmsman I now gave the order,
to steer the ship to that recreation planet.
In a short time of sailing, the planet appeared in the depth,
it was like a bluish star and shone brightly in the darkness,
later it transformed and turned into the shape of a sphere,
even later we landed with the ship black,
we marveled at the planet, for it was very pleasant,
warm and friendly and delightful like a paradise,
in the manner in which I had described it to my comrades before,
but in reality it seemed much better.

We then, walking upon it, gazed with joyful hearts,
soon even the comrades began to reach for the fruit there,
which grew on the branches and around on various trees,
in abundant quantity and sweet in taste, a pleasant meal.
145 There was no danger there of any poison,
as I also knew for sure, for the planet was favorable.
Various diverse birds and splendid shining insects,
which flew around, also sang with sweet voices,
it was marvelous to behold and also to listen to the sounds.
150 The animals there were also so beautiful, very lovely,
similar to antelopes and deer, a pleasant sight,
beautiful, and various ones also bore horns on their heads,
gentle, for they had no fear of earthly men,
they had no knowledge of those beasts and no experience with them,
155 but quite calmly they came to each of the men
the animals, also calmly allowing themselves to be petted by them,
also feeding on bread, which we had brought for food.
And also the female animals, which had young with them,
allowed themselves to be milked by us, and to drink their milk
160 from the udder; all those animals were very gentle.
Then some men also wished to join in love
with the unearthly does, for far from women
they had been alone for a long time and a strong necessity befell.
But I immediately ordered them strongly to stop
165 with mocking words. Shame seized their minds.
But again I urged the comrades to wait,
I walked along the shore of the noisy sea,
holding a flute in my hands, which is called "saxophone",
I began to play it - they walked behind me in amazement.
170 (I knew about this star, for the excellent computer held
in memory information, which men call "DATABANK".)
Immediately beings began to emerge from the sea waters,
resembling some kind of sea women or nymphs
who dwell in the water and are the subject of old myths.
175 They were then normal earthly women above,
but they also had tails like fish below.
These women then in the shallows of the sea descended
listening to the flute, which is called saxophone,
for its sound supposedly always evokes lust in people.
180 These beings seemed desirous to lie there in the shallows
with the star men sailors, and they indicated it to them,
without the need for the interpreter Franta to be active in this.
We then quickly shook off all our clothes from our limbs,
we entered the sea immediately to join in love with the nymphs,
185 and then each one was accepted by the nymphs in the shallow sea.
Thus from dawn to the bright sun's setting
in the shallows in the warm water we performed erotic acts
with those sea nymphs, for far from women
we had been alone for a long time and a strong necessity befell.
190 But when the sacred light of the sun set behind the horizon
(strange, quite different from what we have on Mother Earth)
then the nymphs returned back into the depths of the sea,
but sleep overcame us right there on the sea shore.
So then we lived there on the recreational star,
195 we ate the fruit of palms and other trees there,
we also ate some shellfish, soft and meaty,
which the sea nymphs showed us - and we drank
milk from the gentle animals and made love with the nymphs.
We had no obligation on the orbit,
200 but only an easy life and various pleasures,
our hearts also did not want to urge us
to seek Mandys again and the sheep that watches the universe,
but to stay in place and have an easy life here.
But it did not happen that we should stay forever.
205 One day I and the good comrades
lay on the shore of the noisy sea,
together with the fish-tailed sea maidens,
sweetly singing, and I played again
holding a flute in my hands, which is called saxophone.
210 With us there on the shore was also the interpreter Franta,
to translate the speech of the nymphs for us and our speech for them,
and with the help of Franta I had learned much about the nymphs,
why they were so kind to strangers.
For even to these nymphs, somewhere in the depths of the sea,
215 males of the same kind and also of the same species exist,
but very powerful, yet very lazy in love,
just like on Earth there are also very wild lions,
which lionesses must always try to arouse.
These men were similar to the water nymphs.
220 But when some man aroused himself and also emerged,
he could easily bring harshness or destruction to the nymph,
for they were generally also gigantic in all their parts.
For this reason, nymphs are also kind to strangers.
Thus, on the shore of the sea we lay, the good comrades.
225 Suddenly a thunderous sound resounded and shook the air,
the nymphs, frightened, dived back into the depths of the sea.
But I, quickly straightening up, looked around everything,
the shores and the surface of the sea and also above the sky,
seeking the source of the thunder and the origin of the noise.

230 Suddenly, however, I spotted a small spacecraft
which we had attached to the black ship,
one of the two we had to fly in the clear sky.
It was equipped with fiery rocket propulsion at the stern,
flew quickly upwards and swiftly disappeared from our sight.
235 Seeing that craft, I immediately roused all the comrades with a shout.
We immediately ran to the fast boat, although naked,
but inside we found that all the splendid treasures
(which the king of people on the hollow planet had once given us
for help against the war of dogs and cats),
240 were no longer in the ship and simply disappeared.
With them disappeared also our Kypta and one little boat.

It would have been better for him to steal the good ship
but it would have been too difficult for him to control this ship,
for Kypta did not know how to steer the black ship. -
245 Unquenchable anger arose in the brave comrades,
when they saw the wealth disappear from their good ship.
But I remained unfazed by this theft
(I value gold nothing, for I am a Cynic philosopher),
but the other comrades cried like little children,
250 tore their hair sharply and beat their heads mightily
thus wealth also makes reasonable men mad. -
But I ordered the comrades to stop immediately with this,
and I also urged them immediately to chase Kypta with the ship,
not for the vile gold, but for our boat
255 (which they also call either a skiff or a barge),
for its nuclear propulsion, which Kypta had in the ship.
Immediately the good comrades calmed their minds,
they began to chase Kypta with their ship through the abysses.
Immediately the rocket propulsion propelled the good ship,
260 upwards we soared into space and left the foreign planet.
From there we sailed further through the abysses of empty space
to chase Kypta and his boat in its depths.
We could no longer see the boat with our eyes,
for that cunning man had fled far ahead of us,
265 but our sensors found him in the ship,
flying quickly ahead of us through the abysses of empty space.
So we began to chase him immediately, with sighs in our hearts,
cursing loudly, for strong anger seized all,
men and androids and Franta of living tissue.
270 For nine earthly days we sailed through the abysses of space,
but the opportunity to catch the fleeing one did not appear to the pursuers.
The cosmic skiff was small and for only a few men,
but it was easily controlled and swiftly sailed through space.
But when the tenth new earthly day appeared,
275 we saw the fleeing boat on the television
directly with our own eyes, which brought us great joy.
Immediately I ordered my rockets to increase their power
to the men and androids, and Tolma flew quickly.
Just as a falcon, that bird, when it chases a sparrow in front of it,
280 it flies very quickly stretching out its wings forward,
so Tolma carried us, both men and robots,
very quickly, chasing Kypta with the intention of capturing him.
But no opportunity to catch him arose for the sailors,
for the pursued Kypta was fast in cosmic flight,
285 he spun all kinds of tricks for us just to escape.
What should I tell earlier, and what should I tell later,
about Kypta's various tactics and his complex mind?
How he led us to the too heavy stars on the way,
so that the ship's course was curved by the force of gravity,
290 but when the helmsmen leveled the ship's course again,
Kypta escaped us from the television orbit again,
so we had to chase him again in the abysses of space
with remote sensors. This greatly helped us.
Finally, cunning Kypta directed his cosmic boat
295 to one such star, called a neutron star
by the new astronomers: it undergoes violent fusion
and even mass merging. That body is very heavy
heavenly, for only one cubic centimeter
of its mass weighs a trillion tons; but that very
300 compressed is its mass, is only very small,
for it has a spherical diameter of only ten kilometers.
These neutron stars spin very fast,
some beams also emit radio waves
pulsing, and that's why astronomers call them pulsars
305 (this word comes from Latin).
To one pulsar Kypta now aimed his boat,
to confuse our sensors in our black ship
with the pulsing beams emitted sharply by that star,
and thus to disappear from us, as he flies in the stellar space.
310 I now gave the command to the helmsman robot
to follow Kypta quickly, so he could not escape from our sight,
and that smart robot immediately calculated the trajectory,
so that nothing harmful would happen to the ship in space,
when the neutron star would be very close to it;
315 for the pulsar is surrounded by a magnetic field,
as well as gravitational, for it has a very dense mass.


However, to me, as the captain, this didn't seem right in my heart,
that the path was curved, so I manually adjusted its direction,
to sail more smoothly; that, fool that I was, I didn't know then,
320 that in that magnetic field there was danger for us
for the nuclear propulsion, which we have in the black boat,
and for the very engine that propels the ship forward.
Explaining this to you would be very difficult
from the twentieth century only to men, as well as women,
325 because you still don't know enough about the physics of matter;
but our ship would have exploded for us,
if one of the robots hadn't opened a helpful jet.
A terrible, powerful force then drove the good ship
nuclear; very quickly we rushed into the abyss of space,
330 away from the pulsar and Kypta and his boat,
and it carried us far away from the dear stars to us,
which even our computers had in their memories
and which we, sailors, knew, though experienced cosmic wolves,
suns and planets around and the creatures that live on them.
335 But the atomic force there drove us powerfully
into unknown space, about which we had no knowledge.
However, we immediately forgot about Kypta, gold, and the boat,
we tore hair from our heads and struck ourselves mightily,
and also with heavy sighs we attempted to pray,
340 if perhaps a god might be alive in the depths of space,
but even so, no chance appeared for those who prayed.
And I, very foolishly, because of despair holding my mind,
cursed the robot who opened the helpful nozzle,
instead of praising him. That was very foolish.
345 But that Kypta, along with the gold and the very boat,
the star's gravity eventually attracted to itself,
as it seems most likely, because he flew very close.
Thus wealth makes fools even of wise men,
for it takes away reason and prepares a harsh destruction.
350 From there, therefore, we sailed through the abyss of empty space,
barely escaping death, yet completely lost ourselves.