STARVOYAGES SONG NINE
(On Tailed Women and Deceptions)

From there, we sailed through the abysses of empty space,
Seeking Mandys and the sheep that surveys the universe.
To a planet we came, where beings dwelled
Similar in overall appearance to the women on Earth,
5 But staying there was not pleasant at all.
Then we realized that life could exist
In space, and having realized, we sailed away from the planet.
Having descended to the ground, we anchored our good ship.
Immediately, three of our crew jumped out from the ship,
10 Whom I sent out to that planet to find out
What kind of beings were there on the land, consuming food,
Whether they were wild and rebellious, even malicious,
Or whether they were friendly and had a gentle mind.
They left and did not return for a long time,
15 After many long hours, I went out alone to find out.
Alone I went out, and I led with me on a leash
The remarkable Franta, who is the interpreter of all languages,
Walking on the strange and foreign planet.
The leaves on the trees there were red,
20 Like the leaves of some beeches on our Earth,
Which mortal people call copper beeches there,
But the grass on the planet was blue and black,
Such unusual colors, and the land had a strange appearance.
As I walked, the city appeared to me magnificent.
25 I went towards that city, both I and Franta the robot,
For a great curiosity had seized my noble mind,
What kind of beings were there in the land, consuming food,
(Whether they were wild and rebellious, even malicious,
Or whether they were friendly and had a gentle mind.)
30 Immediately, I fell into some kind of pit, and Franta and the robot,
Which was covered there with many cruel branches.
It seemed to be a trap, how wild animals
Catch them, because they should fear them.
In such a trap, Franta and I were caught.
35 But it was a very steep and ugly pit,
There was no way to climb out of it by force.
But now I wanted to call my comrades,
With my radio; but, fool, I left it behind
In the well-polished ship. So I had no way out.
40 But as Franta fell into this black abyss,
He broke his bio-radio with his fall,
He often wanted to call the ship, but everything was in vain.
I sat inside the pit and thought a lot,
And then, as I thought, a double plan seemed to me.
45 Either to throw the robot Franta out of the hole onto the plain,
And then send him back to the ship, so that he would bring help,
Or to dig steps there in the rock using the axe,





Afterwards, to climb up and escape from the difficult pit.
Now, as I thought about it, it seemed better
50 to dig steps in the rock and not throw Franta anywhere,
so that the esteemed interpreter
of all interstellar languages would not break upon being thrown.
He was too precious to be thrown away,
but to dangerously dig the rock with the axe,
55 thus creating steps and thus escaping from the trap.
However, when I reached the very edge of the bitter trap,
then the charge of the axe completely ran out of the weapon.
So I became defenseless, even though I had now dug steps.
But when I was defenseless, harmless, unable to fight,
from the city against the trap, female creatures came out,
60 generally resembling women on Earth in all shapes,
beautiful and well-grown, it was a joy to see them,
in terms of calves and thighs and both breasts above,
but they had tails and also large ears,
pointy, like those of animals or satyrs on our Earth.
65 They wore clothes made of black leather,
and on them were silver studs, and on their feet tall boots,
either just up to the knees, or even up to their very long thighs.
They then gathered and stood on the edge of the trap,
and then they spoke words to each other,
70 but the interpreter Franta translated all their words:
"Truly not a bad thing, for others have now fallen
into this trap, fast dogs here, surprisingly.
One of them is the same as the three we already have,
but the other dog is strange, surprisingly.
75 You will now take them to the queen, as is surely appropriate,
but first we will lift the dogs from this dark pit."
Such were the words of the tailed maidens,
but the interpreter Franta translated the whole speech for me.
Immediately they threw a strong net into the trap,
80 lifted Franta and me out like fish from a pond.
And when they lifted me onto the plain, they began to undress me,
and when they had stripped me naked, they put a collar around my neck
and then forced me to walk on all fours,
like dogs do, and thus they led me to the city,
85 sighing, for it was a very humiliating way of walking,
but they led Franta on a leash, which I was accustomed to
leading him with, being his captain and master.
Now we both walked on all fours in harmony,
and we were equally in the same predicament; so turns the cunning fortune.
90 They conversed about me in various ways during the walk
(but the interpreter Franta translated all their words):
"Well! This is a splendid dog indeed, handsome and large
in all the appropriate parts, as befits a male,
although he lacks a tail, but nothing that is important..."
95 Now they began to speak of things I am ashamed to repeat.

"He is certainly worthy of being the queen's main dog.
But I would take him for myself and gladly allow him
to guard my house and meet with me in bed.
He doesn't seem to be a dull dog, nor lacking in understanding,
100 but rather clever, he seems quick to learn things.
It would be a pleasure to train this dog,
with a sharp whip in hand, or because his backside is well-rounded;
for him, punishment would always be to receive five and twenty lashes,
but as a reward, he would be allowed to enter my bed
105 and there I would then..." I am ashamed to tell further.
However, when I heard this as Franta translated it for me,
from the foul-mouthed women, my body revolted.
Unstoppable laughter immediately ensued among the foul women,
when they saw you, I had no chance to hide.
110 Immediately, one of the tailed women said to the others,
a tall and also pretty woman resembling the queen:
"Now listen to my speech, all you good companions:
Let us not give the queen an untested dog,
but it is fitting to try and learn about him well.
115 There lies a pleasant valley nearby, away from the road,
entering there now, for no one will be watching,
let us try this dog, for it is necessary to know him."
So she said, and all of them immediately entered the bottom of the valley...
but I am ashamed to tell the rest now.
120 But some also wanted to try Franta,
whom the tailed women called a "puppy."
But Franta the robot had no male organs,
for he was made only to interpret many languages,
and they jokingly gave him the appearance of a skunk.
125 Feeling Franta, they found no male organ,
and the women wanted to kill him as unnecessary.
But he began to speak to them in their native language,
pleading for his life and trying to explain everything.
They were very surprised that a puppy could speak,
130 but mockingly told Franta, the polyglot:
"If, dear puppy, you were created for languages,
speak to us in one of your languages, about erotic matters!"
But the interpreter Franta did not understand the will of the girls,
for he was a simple and pure scholar only,
135 but I told him what they wanted in our language,
(which seemed to the girls just like barking,
because Franta didn't tell them that I too am capable of speech).

He then, obediently, performed erotic acts for them,
willingly or not; being a robot, he did not know pleasure.
140 Thus, in the hollow, we, beneath the clear western sun
(strange, foreign, unlike that of Mother Earth)
with those foul women did what they desired
in various ways, as their hearts prompted.
But when the sun had set and darkness fell upon the earth,
145 I could no longer continue in debauchery,
but lay on the ground stretched out, as if dead.
Then, one of those women, again a pretty one,
tall and grand, resembling the queen,
said: "Now listen to my words, all you good companions.
150 It is no longer fitting to take the dogs to the royal palace,
for now it is dark and the dogs are weary as well.
But for the duration of the night, let us bring them to my kennel,
and let us give them food and drink.
In the morning, we will wash them, for they reek of debauchery,
155 and then we will take them both to the queen's house.
But let us go to the kennel, for we are already very late."
So spoke the chief woman, and they all immediately obeyed,
dressed themselves, and put the collars back on us,
and walked to the great city, which shone brightly into the night.
160 However, when we entered the house of that chief woman,
they threw us into the kennel, where the others had their dogs.
But their dogs were unlike ours,
but very strange and hideous.
The men of those women were all bald and agile,
165 like people, or pigs that love mud,
but their heads resembled those of semi-monkeys on Earth,
which men call "lemurs."
These dogs had long, pointed ears,
similar to those of the women with pretty backs,
170 each of them also had a tail, like those women,
long or short, with sparse fur.
Their limbs were not canine, but very much like human limbs,
which was horrifying to behold,
legs, as well as arms, and male organs beneath the belly.
175 But I did not see any female dogs among them.
These dogs ran on all fours in the kennel,
and when we entered, they ran to us to find out who we were.
Immediately, my heart broke with sweetness.
But the local hounds did not want any harm to us,
180 but walked towards us and wagged their tails,
as if welcoming us and sniffing around,
as dogs do, sniffing our behinds and similar things.
But, standing up as befits a human,
I drove away the dogs and sent them in all directions.
185 Those dogs were not wild at all, but quite the opposite,
gentle and fearful, afraid of all two-legged beings.
I lay on the floor, exhausted by the women,
not feeling cold even in the dark of night,
for those tailed women had warm climates.


Suddenly, an old woman entered the pit, carrying a sharp whip that scares away dogs and men, and she had a bucket from which she poured a disgustingly unappetizing dish into the trough, and the dogs lunged for it. However, I had no desire to feast on food from the trough; it seemed better to endure hunger, which bites in the stomach, so I only let out pure water from the shiny faucet, quenching my thirst and also providing some for Franta. Franta, the interpreter, had no need for food, but his trophic system was entirely stunted, so he only sustained himself on small food pills, one of which was sufficient for a whole month, but he needed water, as he was made of living tissue. But when I quenched my thirst with water from that faucet, I lay down on the floor, exhausted from fatigue. Sweet sleep immediately fell upon my eyelids, so I lay stretched out until the dawn broke. When dawn appeared with its rose-colored fingers (quite different from our Earthly dawn), a girl, the chief with a beautiful figure, entered the pit along with other girls. The dogs immediately rushed towards them, wagging their tails and barking loudly. They immediately tried to embrace their thighs with their hands, in a dog-like manner. Those girls struck them with deadly whips, and the agile dogs scattered around the pit. They seized me and my good companion, threw us into some kind of large containers filled with warm water, and washed us both well. But when they dried us with beautiful towels, they put collars back on us, as they had done before, led us on a leash into the great palace of the queen. They also led Franta there, the robot on a leash with me. She sat there in the hall on a shining throne, holding a scepter in her hands and wearing a diadem on her head. She was beautiful and magnificent, her head covered in glory. She kindly received them and also spoke with them, but I couldn't exactly understand what they were saying (because Franta the interpreter remained silent in the royal residence), but it seemed quite clear what was happening here, that they were offering me to the queen as a gift, while they gave Franta to another girl in the palace, who was the queen's companion and also her secretary.

And now the maids led me into the house with a copper threshold of the queen, then they placed me inside a shiny cage, locked me in, and provided food and drink. They sat around laughing and giggling, but I was without the flawless interpreter Franta to understand the speech and meaning of the maids. Sweet sleep then fell upon my eyelids, as I was exhausted from yesterday's encounters with the girls. In the evening, they came to me and woke me from sleep, then led me into the depths of the queen's house, and there they placed me in the bedroom of their queen. Then the queen herself entered the bedroom, began to undress and reveal her feminine shapes, leaving on black stockings, as is the custom of promiscuous women. She called me to her, as puppies are called throughout the cosmos, which I quickly understood, as she clearly expressed her will. So, I walked on all fours towards her, no one forced me to do so, but I liked the idea of being a dog, fitting for such feminine acts. She did not immediately allow me to engage in love, but gave me many perverse actions to perform. And I obeyed, as I liked the idea of it. But when she finally took a sharp and bitter whip and started to beat me with it, led by her wilfulness, I jumped up, stood upright, as is proper for a man, snatched the whip from her hand, which was doing wicked deeds, and threw the queen onto her excellent bed, seizing her tail with my powerful left hand and striking her buttocks with the splendidly shining whip with my right hand, the royal whip with which she had accustomed all the maids, as well as the companions and fake animals, to be whipped forever. Unquenchable anger and the desire for revenge overcame me, due to the humiliation I had experienced from the hands of the ruling woman. However, she did not call for the guards, noble woman that she was, but seemingly enjoyed the perversity in her mind. The maiden screamed terribly, and loudly roared, yet she did not summon the maids with the shining bell, whose rope hung directly above her bed, a clear sign that she liked it in her heart. I, however, also rejoiced in spanking her beautiful, plump buttocks, which is always a charm of women, causing her intestines to jump out onto her white skin. In the end, she signaled to me to fornicate with her, but I am ashamed to confess all those things. But when the noble woman subdued her lust, she spoke with affectionate words, but I did not understand the language of tail-wagging women, so I gestured for Franta to be brought. She immediately pulled the string on her shining bell, and the guard appeared and sent her somewhere. Immediately, the girl returned, carrying Franta. It was truly the highest time, as the robot later told me, for when the noblewoman realized afterward that Franta did not have the male organs customary on his body, she, as an unnecessary being, ordered the guards to kill him. But before they could kill him, the queen saved his life. However, the queen now began to tell a great story, a strange and incredible tale, namely the secret of women and their peculiar dogs. "They are not dogs at all, but they are our men, degenerates — and we always call them dogs. They are as foolish as all animals, and now we keep them as pets for our pleasure, for the joy of ruling over them, causing pain to all male animals and them as well. And also for breeding and our own lascivious pleasures, to produce new puppies. For these purposes, we have these Lzipsian males here. In the long-gone and long-disappeared years, we also had men who were capable of speech, who also had intelligence and were as upright as women. And those men here also taught us numerous techniques. Nevertheless, those men always ruled over us women."

A certain maiden rose and began to proclaim rebellion. At first, both men and women mocked her, but gradually all the maidens agreed to overthrow the men and let the women rule over them. And so, step by step, the number of these rebels increased until they began the rebellion and also emerged victorious in it. But in ancient times, men and women also had kind hearts, for they were all very advanced democrats and had various technologies. So in our community, the people divided into two factions. Those who triumphed in the land were two kinds: firstly, lesbian women who hated all men, and secondly, women who loved men but wanted to rule over them. Among these, there were few men who were masochistic and wanted to submit themselves to be ruled by women. Others were normal like men and women who wanted to live as before and believed that men should rule. They allowed the normal ones to sail away on black ships to travel among the stars, as they were hated. But the rulers of men also divided into two factions, namely, lesbians and ruling mistresses of men. Now, the maidens in long dresses cast lots, and it fell to the lesbians to leave the planet. Immediately, they left our fat planet, and we, remaining here, ruled over the entire planet. And gradually, the men transformed into creatures who became foolish and quadrupedal, just like dogs. From these, we now joyfully rule over those Lzips. However, much of our rare and valuable technology has disappeared. Surely, we do not lack intelligence, like women, but the ability and skill from which various mechanical things and other masculine works arise. Because even lesbian women, who have a brain like men, left the planet, and men became degenerates. So, knowledge of how to travel through space and other technologies that we once had on the planet have also disappeared. I cannot even say how it was with our men, whether some natural mutation occurred in them or whether it was caused by complex technical knowledge. Stupidity is built into their male chromosome, which biologists once named Ypsilon, namely, when a man is born, he will be stupid, with a head resembling a dog's and walking on all fours. But those dogs opposed me when it came to mating because I recognized a man who is normal and has intelligence. I prefer him more than ruling over him; I would like him to stay here and continue to be a man over me, to rule over me powerfully and father clever sons with me." So spoke the ruling woman and stretched out her arms to me, and it seemed excessive to me to lie with her again. Gripping her from the side, as she had intestines on her buttocks, I began to penetrate her and perform erotic acts. But when orgasm came and the end of this act, I saw around the bed my good companions, all natural men and artificial robots as well. Franta called them with his bio-radio phone, for the damage he suffered from the fall healed with the power of strong nature — robots made of living tissue have a great advantage. But as soon as Franta realized that the system was healthy again, he immediately called for the ship and all the companions. They then hurriedly fought off the danger with their deadly faces, saving me, Franta, and the other three companions again, who were held in other cages by those girls. But it is also possible that in those women, the Ypsilon chromosome remained healthy, and normal boys will be born. That was the second planet where we left our sperm. Thus, fate made us cosmic sailors. Joyfully, we entered the good ship. Immediately, the rocket propulsion propelled us forward, and we soared into space, leaving the planet behind.