STAR VOYAGES SONG THIRTEENTH
(On various creatures on planets)

From there we then sailed, and with a troubled heart,
we felt sharp anger towards Pornogynetes the king,
seeking Mandys and the sheep that roams the cosmos,
in space like a post in a fence — and no planet in sight,
5 only a black abyss and stars shining from afar.
We came to a strange and foreign sun,
around which strange foreign planets revolved.
From there we saw many different creatures and places,
a great wonder to behold and also to tell of.
10 First, we came to a planet where there were
very strange beings, hairy like animals,
but all three-legged and with a trunk in their face,
their eyes were like those of owls or frogs.
These creatures on this star were very ugly,
15 but they were as intelligent as mortal humans on Earth,
they had their own language and way of thinking,
Franta the translator could translate their speech.
With them were creatures like their domestic animals,
mighty, very large, and most resembling seals,
20 but living on land and having four legs as well,
and they ate plants like cows, goats, and sheep.
These three-legged beings had them as their domestic animals,
milking them for their milk and also drinking their dark blood,
piercing the skin and flesh of these animals with their snouts.
25 They revered these animals and said they were gods,
and that they were also the givers of eternal life.

If someone were to drink the blood and milk of these animals,
they would have eternal life immediately after they die.
Then the three-legged beings forced us to drink the animals' blood,
30 and when we refused, they immediately became hostile,
and wanted to force upon us eternal life by violence
from then on forever, for they thought it would be better for us.
They drew some kind of spears and began to aim at us.
We killed a few of them there with our deadly phasers,
35 then boarded our ship and flew up to the heavens.
From there we sailed through the voids of empty space,
marveling at the three-legged beings and their strange cult.
We then came to a planet during our starry voyage,
which was as cold as the Earth's Antarctica.
40 On it lived beings or entities, as one might also say,
equipped with eyes and as if riveted.
The more noble they were, the more eyes they had,
for the more one sees, the more noble one is.
Thus, most of them had tens of eyes,
45 but the better ones had hundreds on them,
and those at the very top had thousands of eyes.
But on that planet, we did not stay long either,
it was too cold, and it was easy to see
that no sheep could live on that planet,
50 neither an ordinary sheep nor the one that roams the cosmos.
From there we sailed further through the voids of empty space,
marveling in our hearts at the natural wonders.
We then came to a planet during our starry voyage
(seeking Mandys and the sheep that roams the cosmos),
55 which seemed barren and nothing grew on it at all,
neither tree, nor bush, nor any herb or grass,
only rocky cliffs and ugly, bare rocks.

Spectral beings of some kind were there, a strange sight,
not of solid matter, but transparent like mist,
60 or the shadows of the dead, or some kind of ghostly apparitions.
They did not distinguish between males and females,
for the concept of gender was unknown and entirely foreign to them,
nor did they need food or drink,
but the sun of that planet provided them with energy
65 (a strange, very foreign sun unlike our own).
These things I learned about those spectral beings,
for they could communicate with us soul to soul,
directly, without any speech and only through bare concepts.
And this is what the beings conveyed to us, without any words:
70 "Fortunate, stranger, are we, for we have no need
for food or drink, nor clothing, nor sleep,
nor to unite in love, for we are not material at all,
but here we float lightly, without any weight,
performing only the blissful acts of the Muses.
75 If you stay with us now on this planet,
we will also make you as blissful as we are."
Thus spoke the shadows, without uttering a word,
and I greatly desired to stay with them,
to have no need for food and no need for drink,
80 nor other material needs and to be free from them,
to be pure intellect without a body and its needs,
and my companions felt the same longing.

And on that planet, we all would have perished,
had it not been for our robots and most of all, translator Franta.
85 They all possess reason, but lack a human soul,
so the shadows could not take hold of them.
And thus, by this temptation, they remained unaffected.
They also took us and placed us in the black vessel,
but the robot helmsman guided it into space.
90 — In future times, these robots will be so intelligent! —
Then, as we traveled further, our reason returned to us.
Saved from death, we sailed through the chasm of space.
We then came to a planet, where lived
very strange creatures, a curious sight to behold.
95 This planet, however, was worth exploring thoroughly,
for it seemed suitable for the sheep, for their life.
But on that planet, there were no bleating sheep,
but animals living there resembling goats,
strange, very peculiar, unlike those on Mother Earth.
100 For the males of these animals walked on two legs,
similar to small humans, yet they had
very large horns, in the manner of goats.
These goat-men were intelligent and spoke a language,
but the females were like animals, incapable of speech,
105 large, very strong, and all were tame.
The goat-men rode on them like horses,
also making them perform various tasks
like farmers' oxen or mules on Earth.
These large goats grazed in the open fields,
110 but the goat-men lived on goat milk,
and they also had the habit of mating with them, as is usual
for males and females of the same species.
Thus, the horned men ruled over the females
without any war. It was a perfect system.
115 We saw something similar with the tailed women,
but here it was the perfect culmination of evolution.
Having looked at these goats and goat-men,
but not finding the space-watching sheep,
we rose into space and left the strange planet,
120 marveling at the wonders of nature in our hearts.
We then came to a planet in our starry voyage,
which from afar seemed capable of bearing life,
but its air was foul and very harmful,
unsuitable for breathing and for life as well.


125 Seeing this, we wished to fly back into space,
but then we suddenly saw a creature walking there,
a man similar to an earthly one, walking upright,
wearing a spacesuit and also a mask on his face,
against the deadly air, which (in Greek) modern men
130 call by the term "gas"*, this strange little man
gathered mushrooms on the ground, which seemed to be his food.
Yet I wanted to know what kind of creature it was,
so I too donned a mask on my head,
put on a spacesuit, and jumped from the ship to the ground,
135 not alone: Sturdy robot Ivo went to guard me,
and Franta followed the android, the all-translator,
himself wearing the suit they call on Earth
a "space suit" by British men and again by other men
a "spacesuit," but his was actually a "space skunk,"
140 also certainly with a mask, to protect from the deadly gas,
but in the helmet of his suit, he had a built-in megaphone,
which is also called an "amplion" by another name,
to shout outward, though his mouth was covered inside.
Thus equipped, we approached the strange man.
145 Fear seized him, and he tried to flee from me,
but Franta addressed him in various languages,
finally hitting the right one, and the man replied.
So, speaking various words from a distance,
we conversed and answered each other.
150 Finally, we invited this man into our ship,
and he agreed and entered the black vessel.
Inside, he removed his suit, revealing himself to us,
not like any human or earthly creature,
for he had a strange beak — it is hard to describe with words,
155 with four claws on his hands, like a parrot has,
but he seemed an intelligent and kind being.
I then questioned the strange man about everything on the planet,
about his race and all other matters,
also about the deadly gas and what had happened here,
160 and the strange creature showed me many things
and, answering, spoke winged words to me,
which Franta the translator translated:
"Stranger, you ask about my race and homeland,
and about the deadly gas and all other matters.
165 So I will tell you. But it is indeed a bitter tale.
I am the last creature of all who lived here,
beings possessing reason. We were taken by a cruel and strong fate
and destroyed by unrestrained greed.
At first, we had a strange and unusual regime,
170 as our elders used to tell us:
All things belonged to all men,
and no citizen could have anything of his own.
Only the leading men had their own homes,
as well as many treasures, as is the way of rulers,
175 but they did not call their private property private,
instead calling it personal — yet there is no difference —
and they kept saying that everything belonged to everyone,
leading false tales, for they owned everything,
while everyone else was their slave.
180 To these common men and also common women,
it seemed nothing in their minds, but there was no help,
for their rulers also had many guards,
thus leading a very bitter life for all the people.
But slowly, the minds of all began to change,
185 a large majority of men and a large majority of women,
and then they quickly rose against their leaders,
overthrowing the rulers and establishing democracy.
But then everything reverted back:
Things that were common were privatized,
190 sold to those men who were previously wealthy,
so it was almost necessary to pay for everything,
for the right to use the toilet and even to walk on the road,
and for drawing water to drink or wash.
In the end, even the air itself was sold to one man,
195 so that he could sell breathing to everyone.
But this could not be done, for air was everywhere,
everyone breathed it involuntarily, automatically.
In the end, they decided on the private air thus:
They polluted all the air with a deadly gas,
200 and sold spacesuits and masks to everyone,
so that no living beings on this planet
could breathe any longer if they did not pay.
But this plan backfired and affected the air's owner,
as well as all the rulers who had a share in the air.
205 For the deadly gas grew stronger quickly,
more than the spacesuits and masks could protect them.
All the beings with reason on our planet died from the gas,
and almost all other creatures, too.
Only I survived, and a few others with me,
210 who were digging in deep mines all the time,
and when we emerged into the air and to the surface,
the gas had weakened so it was barely possible
to live on our planet, if one wore a spacesuit always.
But even so, it happened that all my good fellows
215 soon perished too, for the deadly gas reached them.
I alone am the last of those beings,
who perished here from their own greedy minds,
destroyed by unrestrained desire for profit."


220 So spoke the wise creature, and Franta translated everything.
All in our vessel fell silent, sitting quietly,
contemplating these matters, for they were powerful facts.
Later, leaving the last man on the planet,
we soared into space and marveled at everything.
From there, we sailed further through the void of space,
225 searching for Mandyse and the sheep that watches the universe.
We arrived at a planet where creatures dwelled
very strange indeed, difficult to describe in words.
They walked on all fours, these creatures,
but they also had paws, or some sort of hands,
230 growing from their heads, and three eyes, strangely enough.
And these beings were also radiant, of various colors,
yellow, blue, and red, and others were white,
in all possible colors, it was a joy to behold.
These beings, however, did not have homes in buildings,
235 but they lived in giant mushrooms, of great size,
and in these large mushrooms, they dug their abodes.
They were intelligent beings, though strange and very alien,
they also had their own language and spoke with pleasant voices,
so the translator Franta translated all their speech for us.
240 And these quadrupeds did not seem to us to be evil,
but hospitable and kind to us all,
for they revered us as gods, come down from heaven.
They also showed us a mysterious image,
on a large board of some kind, which was sacred to them,
245 for there was nothing sensible to be seen,
only some spots and some lines.
And they told us that this image was given to them
by the blessed gods who descended from heaven.
If a man sees something sensible in the image,
250 this man will be good and noble, as well as beautiful,
but if another man sees nothing sensible on the board,
then all the citizens have a duty to kill him,
as a harmful man and a bad one, who should not live.
But as they told us, nobody could see anything
255 on the image board, and all were to die.
Now they wanted to ask the board questions and find out,
and they wanted to ask us too, as gods,
who descended from heaven, for we have the highest wisdom.
When we looked at it, no clear shape appeared to us.
260 But finally our doctor and wise technician Burda
had an idea and opinion about the image board:
First, the doctor examined the four-legged creatures' eyes
closely, and after examining them, he came to the conclusion
that all these quadrupeds actually have one blind eye
265 in the middle, but the other two eyes are good.
Then they called the smart robot Tonda from the ship,
and they instructed him to look at the board
as if he had three eyes — and the robot, Tonda, obeyed,
and then he showed them on his wide screen*
270 the image he would see when looking with three eyes.

There was a large bird, like an eagle on Earth,
soaring upward with mighty wings,
carrying trees and rocks and a nest with young birds,
and the large bird carries a fish in its talons.
275 We now understood clearly that it was the work of computers,
complexly calculated, so that only three eyes could see it,
and that someone gave that image to the quadrupeds
to avert the degeneration of the third eye,
but it occurred quickly and could not be stopped
280 by artificial selection of creatures, as the giver had planned.
Then I ordered Tonda to create another image,
in which the hidden eagle and the others could be seen
only with two eyes when the creature looked at it.
Rapidly counting, the robot Tonda created it.
285 The quadrupeds looked at it with joy,
for they worship the eagle as the supreme god.
We then, in turn, entered our stellar vessel,
soared into space, and left the planet behind,
(searching for Mandyse and the sheep that watches the universe).
290 We arrived at a planet during our starry voyage,
which also had an atmosphere and where sheep could live,
and it seemed the strangest of all those planets.
Strange, but it was a land covered with a foul grease,
and a hideous stench pervaded the entire star.
295 There were no plants on the surface,
but strange, hard, twig-like things grew from the ground.
Walking through it, we were exhausted like animals,
for the gravitational force there was stronger than on Earth.
We saw strange animals, bizarre to behold,
300 resembling earthly creatures but monstrously large,
for they easily rivaled horses in size.
These gigantic lice drilled with their snouts into the ground,
in the soil of the planet, which was mysterious to behold.
One of my good companions shot one of the animals with a fejzr.
305 Struck, it turned translucent like mist,
and then disappeared entirely, and there were no more monsters.
The others around did not seem to notice,
for the beast was wretched, slow, and dull.
But from the hole drilled by the louse,
310 dark blood gushed out violently and powerfully.
As we witnessed this, fear gripped us; we understood
that this planet was like some gigantic living creature,
not made of rock and soil, but entirely of living tissue.
And fear seized me and all my good companions,
315 lest the living planet crush us like lice.
We quickly fled into the ship, trembling with fear.
Immediately, the rocket propulsion drove our good vessel,
and we soared into space, leaving the alien planet behind.
We arrived at another planet where enormous monsters dwelled,
320 creatures so terrifying to behold,
hairy, with various horns and teeth, and also claws,
in all shapes and colors, bewildering to behold.

As we walked on the planet, they came out to meet us,
evidently wanting to see us and find out who we were.
325 One of these monsters then approached me,
reaching out its arms to me — and I drew my fejzr,
intending to kill the creature; then it began to speak to me
in our native language, a truly great wonder:
"Why, Nemo, do you want to kill me with your bitter fejzr,
330 your childhood companion whom you must surely recognize!?
I am indeed that monster who used to be there every night
in the closet in your father's house,
when you were still a child, and who terrified you.
I was in the closet with you every night,
335 until you grew up and gained the courage of a man.
Then I left that closet and your bedroom,
and now I live on this planet with my companions.
But now I have come to greet you as a friend,
for we spent many nights together,
340 I in that closet and you in your bed.
But now you have come to visit me in my land,
being a great man and captain of space voyagers.
That, my friend, fills me with joy and pride.
But come! Let us now go with the others to my house,
345 so that I may entertain you and give you splendid hospitality."
So it spoke, and now I recognized the monster from the closet,
as I used to see it with the eyes of my soul
in my childhood, and I felt nostalgic.
But I spoke winged words to the apparition:
350 "How is it, my dear, that you speak and claim to have your own house,
when you are merely a phantom and a figment of the mind?
I will not go into your house with a copper threshold,
for I clearly see that you are not real."
Thus I spoke, and the dreadful monster replied:
355 "Truly foolish you are, Nemo, or perhaps you have studied Marxism,
if you think that reality and dreams are different.
There is only one Being, and time and space are one,
energy and matter are also one,
body and soul are one, and so is
360 phantom and reality — all one, everything that exists at all.
So I am your mere imagination when you were a child,
and yet I am truly alive and have this solid body.
But you did not recognize your friend's existence,
I no longer wish to welcome you into my house!
365 You became a captain, and it inflated your mind,
but I am only a monster that small children fear,
and so you no longer think I am worthy of your friendship,
for you have suddenly become proud: that has broken my heart."
It spoke, and then the monster left the closet in tears,
370 and the other creatures followed it with heavy hearts;
they were all offended that I had scorned their companion.
We then returned to our beautiful ship,
boarded the vessel, and prepared to depart,
I as the ship's captain and my companions.
375 Immediately, the rocket propulsion drove our good vessel,
and we soared into space, leaving the alien planet behind.
From there, we sailed on and marveled at the wonders of the universe.
Truly, there is nothing stranger than nature itself.