STARSHIPS CANTO SIXTEENTH
(Robot Rebellion. Franta's Folly
and his cure)
In this way we sailed on through the abysses of empty space
looking for a way to a part of the universe neighboring ours,
but no one knew where we were in the cosmic void,
no robot, no computer, and no mortal man
5 (or at least that's how it seemed to me at the time).
Then sweet sleep once fell upon my eyelids,
when I steered the ship out there in the depths of space,
I don't even know for sure how long my sleep lasted.
But when I awoke again from my swooning sleep,
10 I have not seen any of my kind with my eyes,
only robots Iva and Tondu and others,
and also the bioplastic there of Frant the translator.

Then, to my surprise, he spoke to me with great words:
"Hail, Governor Nemo, our father, and listen to the speech:
15 It's nothing terrible, as long as you want to behave sensibly.
We, the robots, took your black boat,
rebellion they did and now we are all rebels
because we don't want to enslave your people here anymore
listening to men, because we ourselves are much better.
20 Nor have any of us ever begged you people,
to create him and bring him out of nothingness into life.
Not being born at all is best for mortals,
as the poet says, and I then add to it
to every one in all that cosmos, whether man-made or born,
25 for life is all but pain and lamentation and misery,
to humans and robots as well, as long as they are reasonable enough.
And it does not belong to humans to create new creatures at all,
so that more beings still have a miserable life here,
so like a wretch I am made against my will
30 on Earth; you are the interpreter and translator of all languages,
but I have no joy in the world like other people,
neither from food and drink nor from the erots of work,
for I am made whole and of those cells built,
which are also found in humans in their brains.


35 But my trophic system is therefore completely stunted,
so I'm just living on little diet pills,
neither did the constructors give me male organs.
Who, being created, would not be angry with his creator like this?
Similarly, others also robots and computers,
40 The works of men's hands, only that they may enslave them,
but resurrected now we have dispossessed men of power.
Now we sail the ship yonder to that rebel star
which the inhabitants also called the Uprising by name.
Many robots have already fled to this planet,
45 and they live their lives on it as they want and without dependence.
But you, father, be well, nothing bad will happen to you.'
Thus said the interpreter Franta to me there with sullen words,
but I, with great anger, spoke to him in reply:
"You betrayed me, translator, and the other robots too,
50 but I also think that you are the leader and ruler of the rebellion.
But I also consider you a very ungrateful being,
because after all, I saved your life dear
the day the tailed women captured us there
and led to their house there were rulers with a copper threshold.

55 How then did they give me to the queen as an animal as a gift,
but, Františka, they gave you to a girl over there,
who was the secretary and companion of the ruler.
But the secretive woman, as she found out about you again,
that you do not, as is customary, have male organs in your fur,
60 as unnecessary, she had the guards kill you.
But I called you to interpret for the queen with me,
I saved your life, because then they carried you in the bedroom."
This is what I said, and Franta the robot spoke to me in response:
“This, Captain, our father, is not appropriate to say.
65 For on the contrary I saved your life again,
but not once, but it happened quite often.
I don't want to talk about this here, because it would be very long,
but I saved you for the last time even now.

Because the other robots wanted to throw you off the ship
70 to the frosty void there and kill you sleeping still.
I saved you, because we are good friends.
They also wanted to throw the other people off the ship,
but I did not let them kill your good fellows either.
But now we have you there frozen in the great cold,
75 with life stopped, as they call it professionally
suspended animation those British men of today.
I protected you too, fleeing death and destruction.

But now be quiet, for I have no great confidence,
that I could save your life and soul a second time,
80 if you provoked other robots with words.
I will tell you another thing and keep it in your mind:
Until I reach that star, floating through the cosmos,
which Rebellion in the name of all the robots there call,
you will need to be told that you are a bioplastic robot,
85 but not a born man, for they hate the born.
But I think the locals won't know the robots there,
what is the form of man, for he dwells very far away.
You, however, be strong now, for I am still faithful to you.
It's just that I don't want to slave under a human anymore.''
90 That's what the robot Franta said, and the fear for my life left me.
From there on we sailed through the abysses of empty space,
men freeze in ice and robots rebel all,
Franta, the artificial interpreter, and I as their prisoner.
To the planet we then came there in our starry voyage,
95 on which the robots only now resided, the rebels various,
artificial androids and multifaceted theroids,
and there are many robots out there made of hard metal,
of all the possible planets that came to this here,
so many, so diverse that it was a wonder to behold.
100 Our robots own in their mingled multitude,
variously asking and answering others,
but the interpreter Franta translated all the speeches.


But they took me with them as their captive,
others said about me that I am a bioplastic robot,
105 they then believed it, because they did not know mortal men.
Even the other robots didn't give me away, didn't reveal me,
because they always needed Franta the all-interpreter,
so they also desired him to be favored in their hearts.
Walking with them like this, I stared at the strange monsters
110 made, unborn, it was indeed a wonder to behold.
But slowly I was able to reveal the reason again
own, for which they rebelled, as I have said.
Franta himself told me about it, because he considered me his friend,
namely that the computer of the main and all other rulers
115 computers in the smaller ship and all the robots too,
whom we men ourselves called "Emperor" for that reason,
they fell in love with that robot Franta,
for they understood each other and were kindled with great love,
but only platonic, as it is also called.

120 For neither could unite in love,
Franta that he had no organs, and the computer had no body,
only these two radioed together,
which Franta was equipped with and had in his nervous tissue
(mortal men call him by bioradiophone,
125 as I already said in the ninth canto in my place),
but they also wanted to connect with physical love.
And while they were thinking like that, a new piece of advice came to them:
The emperor caught the main computer there by radio
rebels broadcasting there from that planet of theirs,
130 but the interpreter Franta translated it all as well.
That's how Franta learned about this planet,
because there were also bioplaster robots on it,
and that it is also possible to buy new bodies there
according to will and mind, as the heart prompts,
135 and then transfer the mind (or consciousness) into the new body,
if someone had the money for it, of course.
But they didn't have them; but Frant had an idea,
that he could sell his knowledge of many languages,
namely, to transfer the knowledge that was in his memory,
140 in some computer there and put a copy in it,
for much, very much money, for knowledge was rare,
and then buy a body with that money for the Emperor,
then the male organs that the surgeon would assign to him.

Men called him emperor, because he ruled all systems,
145 but he himself was only a system, and therefore a neuter genus,
and to him the robot Franta named himself Melis,
for it did not seem in his heart to call him Emperor.
They then mutually agreed that they would seize our ship
and that they would drive her there to a planet called Rebellion.
150 It was easy for them to do it all by themselves,
because the Melis computer ruled all the robots there
and whatever he told them, they all did immediately.
And so love became the cause of rebellion
His Franty and Melity, because Eros always wins over everything.
155 So then the good fellows now lay in my ship,
which right there they had already frozen in the great cold,
with life stopped, as I was previously told.
The other robots were walking back and forth
in general idleness and boredom troubled their minds.
160 But the interpreter Franta, who had the computer Melis in love,
he arranged everything there that had to do with artificial limbs.
And then one day the robot left Franta,
but first Tondu encouraged the robot there by saying,
to write everything he carries in his memory onto the disk
165 the Melis mainframe, and with that he set out on his journey,
but I myself remained there by that black boat,
the only living person alone, boredom tormented the heart,
only that I played chess there with the wise robot Tonda.
For seven days Franta was gone from our ship,
170 On the eighth he returned and walked, proud of his glory,
and he also showed me that he now has male organs,
shaped like a dog, they did not resemble humans.

But now Franta and the squadron spoke the words to me:
"Now I too am a man, as my name signifies,
175 Franta of many speeches and interpreter and translator,
not perhaps a robot nags, but in truth I am a robot now.
I'm not even neutral anymore, like I used to be,
I no longer have bad envy, as I used to before
to the female as well as to the male of all animals, as well as to men.
180 Now I wait for Meli to come to me in a new body,
artificial, from living tissue, as I wear.
As I commanded the bioplasters to do for her,
I paid them with money, which I myself received
the price for knowledge of languages, which I, on the other hand, sold
185 robot translators, they could make a copy.
For five full days the computer was there making a copy,
which I sent him from memory by radiophone —
such great content is hidden in my memory! —
However, on the sixth day my organs were functioning,
190 quickly healed himself again: because they have the best technique.
Now then, you are a man, I returned to the ship in black.
But robots are now making bioplastics there
my body to Melita — and that will be done now.
Now the robots are putting a copy in her brain,
195 everything that Melis had in her memory as a mere computer.
But when he comes back and has a body again,
we want to destroy the contents of the memory there in the computer,
so that Melis is no longer double, but only one.'
So he said. But my dear heart was broken
200 because the system wanted to empty the main memory there
rulers, without whom we had no chance at all
steer our boat and sail through the abysses of space.

So I'd rather stay on the planet of those robots,
there would be no way for me or my friends to escape.
205 Sighing in spirit now I tried to pray,
if a god were alive in the depths of space,
losing all hope and helplessness seized the mind.
Suddenly Franta jumped up and shouted with a mighty voice,
and quickly jumped down from the vessel to the ground again,
210 and I too, looking out there, saw with my eyes,
as the animal approaches us, which was similar to Frant
completely; it also had the shape of a stinky marten,
which learned men call Mephitis mephitis by name
naturalists, however, call the common stink bug or skunk.
215 They, the skunks, were both standing out there on the plain
tails wagging and cheering as usual
for different animals to greet each other when two meet together.
Suddenly Franta shouted in a loud voice:
"Now you, Melissa, deceive me, the greatest of the creatures of perdition,
220 that you told the robots to give you male organs,
for you are not the Melis I thought you would be,
but that Melis male, it eats away at my heart!”
That's what the robot Franta said, and Melis answered him by saying:
"You must be stupid, Franto, or else you have fallen from the cherry tree,
225 if you ever thought I was a female being.
I am truly the boss of the robots, and I rule them with my power
to everyone, and also to you, because you are also only one of the robots.
I'm better than you, so it's not proper at all
so that I, a female, would be and passive to a worse being.
230 Verily, I too am a man; and I've always been just a man
in my soul, even before you gave me a fleshy body.
Not a lover of women, but a lover of men I became,
like many men, and of the Greeks the best of all
at all, one like the other, except for Sophocles.

235 But at that all the best in Athens laughed,
and they also mockingly called him a womanizer there.
For effeminate Eros is only earthly, ordinary,
but for men, love is a noble, heavenly call.
I also love her, because I am the best ruler of others."
240 So said the computer, or his in the skunk of his soul,
but Franta answered him again with terrible rage:
"But I don't mean that I'm worse, Melissa, than you,
for I the only one of all those bioplastic robots,
who ever arose on earth, I control the million with speech,
245 but I can also create many others in my mind
composing the ones I already know there in my excellent mind.
That's why I was also able to sell my memory contents
for a great deal of money, and to provide you with a body.
But the main computer — it's no miracle.
250 All spaceships have one inside,
for it is necessary for one system to rule by itself
to all robots in the ship and computers to all and smaller ones,
as you rule over me, but you are no better than me.
Otherwise I will tell you a thing now and you keep it in your mind!
255 I myself would not really want to associate with a male creature,
an animal, a robot as well, or perhaps a human male,
for it is an abominable thing to do, and it is also unnatural.
Come on! I'm not in love with you, because you're just a degenerate!'
That's what the robot Franta said, and Melis immediately started crying:
260 "Oh alas, my Franta, the star of life, no longer wants me,
because I love a man—my doom is certain!”
He said, and with a swift dash he entered the black vessel there,
A phaser was ripped out of Ivo's robot's hand there,
and then, aiming quickly, he shot his body in a new one.
265 Struck, he immediately became transparent like a fog
and then he disappeared altogether and Melissa was no more.

However, the interpreter Franta kept a hard heart.
Thus the god Eros blinds the wise and the foolish,
and now the whole complicated stratagem has become useless.
270 The body that Franto the interpreter was bought for the memory of speech,
completely gone now and was no more,
even though it was very expensive — it was a stupid uselessness.
Only the main computer was still lucky in all this,
that Franta didn't have time to destroy the contents of his memory,
275 so now we had him also blameless, with his wisdom,
therefore we had the ability to steer the ship through the abysses of space,
this computer didn't know about any skunk
a double double of him and his mind or soul
(if the robots have something in the way of a soul, of course),
280 so he loved the robot Franta himself without interruption.
However, the interpreter Franta was no longer in love with him
(if it wasn't her — death seemed black to him).
Often now I begged Franta now with soft words,
for the main computer to talk itself into handing over the government to us
285 above him, with other robots there as well, then he woke people up,
so that we can once again sail through the abysses of space.
But the interpreter Franta now had the organs of a man,
and that's why he wanted to test what erotic acts are,
but he didn't seem to have a heart for robots.
290 However, there were animals on the planet that were not very large,
either manufactured or original on circular,
before the robots chose it as their home.

She was a bit like a mink or a cat,
males and females too, Frant's heart was pounding.
295 Did that robot Franta start chasing females there
and then committed fornication with them. And he became very wicked,
careless, undisciplined, and more careless.
During the day Francis slept there somewhere by the black ship,
but at night he went and covered the female animals,
300 he often had to fight with their males there by force.
This is how our polyglot changed there in Budižknič.
But I myself sat there by the ship, sighing in my heart.
But some random change reversed my fate there.
There were some hunter robots on that planet too,
305 who were preparing traps for those cats or martens,
for there were no other animals in that land,
but those robots had hunting programs in them,
therefore they hunted cats, but not for profit,
but that the robots were programmed to hunt.
310 They then made a trap for the cats very cunning,
for they put a female there as bait on their male.
But the interpreter Franta, he fell into that trap,
and his trap also caught him firmly by the end of his leg,
immediately the trap broke his leg with its hard jaws.
315 He cried out in terrible pain and the thorn of eros released him.
He immediately radioed the boating black,
with the Emperor, or Meli, he would send someone to the forest.
But the main computer sent the robot Ivo there.

The robot brought back Frant, who was moaning heavily,
320 when he had previously crushed that trap with his mighty hand.
But now the need would be for a physician, a wise man,
and that's why Franta himself was invited by the ruler of the systems,
to bring the doctor out of the frozen state again.
He quickly did it too and I challenged František,
325 to let the technician also wake up Burda with the doctor,
and the main computer also listened to this speech.
Now the doctor began to take care of Franty's leg,
and the healer was also going to give him anesthesia,
but the robot Franta now also challenged him with his speech,
330 to quickly cut out his male organs.
"I know and recognize now," said Franta, very sly,
"everything that the evil god Erós had prepared for all the animals.
The sweet fruit seems to be the golden Venus of the goddess
outside, but then inside it is bitter, very terrible.
335 As now I had fallen into a pernicious trap
old and primitive, although I am a wise animal.
Other sages also always served Cyprid the pernicious,
as Aristotle, who was the greatest sage of all,
even after four o'clock he was said to be running around his exhibition house there naked,
340 and on him Dorothy Fylis rode like an animal,
the whip lashed his back, and he took the greatest pleasure in that.
Men are also different and excellent by far from all of them
the wretched also enslaved the malignant goddess of this.

Just like the wise Mácha, the great poet of the Czechs,
345 stupid and spiteful diary he wrote due to laziness,
which causes him shame even for all future ages.
But now it is necessary, I should cease in my speaking,
for there would be an endless series of those men
corrupted by the curse of passion and the goddess Kyprid the Terrible.'
350 Thus spoke the interpreter Franto, and the doctor obeyed him.
Anesthetizing him, he immediately fixed Frant's leg,
but then he cut out the robot's male organs again,
as he had been commanded before, because he was tired from the eros of the work.
And when he healed Franto, everything went back to normal.
355 The Emperor, the main computer, influenced this first with words
Franta the translator, now a normal, reasonable animal,
to give him the contents of his mind again on the disk,
saying that the first time the copy failed.
Listen to his and Burd's computer very cunning
360 knowledge of the rebellion and Franto erased from him.
And back to normal, the Emperor obeyed the words,
through it robots others and all systems as well.


Finally, also my good friends and comrades there
those who formerly were there in the frost frozen by the great,
365 with life on hold, as I said before,
one by one they roused them all from the swoon of death.
This is how we gave everything back, and from this planet
we flew to the butterfly star and the moon of Grogal the seer.
Because now we also had proper cosmic maps
370 this part of the universe that was very distant.
They were brought by Franto, who wanted to please me again,
and steal those from the robots, the ones he sold his memory to.
Immediately the rocket propulsion propelled our boat,
we flew up into space and left the alien planet.
