STARSHIP SONG TWENTY-FIRST 
(About the guardians of time. Dexterity and bravery
Franty)
From there we sailed on through the abysses of empty space,
we searched for the station of the guardians of time, excellent men,
and then after a long time the planet system appeared to us,
one the distant sun and around the planet many.
5 Of these special ones we saw one of the planets of them all,
which was there the fourth of all those that revolved around.
About this one Grogal, that seer frozen in ice, told me,
that around the moon again revolves around that planet, 
and around that moon again the station of the time guards. 
10 So we sailed closer to the planet and its moon, 
my heart tossed a lot in my chest when I saw it. 
And on that moon too we saw a lot of technology and various conveniences. That month was bristling with technology, 
sensory overvarious and numerous phaser cannons 
15 self-acting. The moon was so terribly equipped with weapons.
Then, when I saw it, my heart broke,
because I knew how difficult it would be to penetrate there for sure
or impossible directly, because they had many weapons there.
But still I wanted what the best possible thing to do. 
20 And here I ordered the good fellows to enter the boat, 
however, Tolma should remain circling around the planet, 
here for the helmsman to steer the robot into orbit.
I and four good fellows entered the boat
not alone, because the interpreter Franta entered there with us, 
25 but we left the robot Ivo on the spot in the ship, 
so that we wouldn't provoke our men, the time guards, 
if they saw the robot, which is decorated with many fejrs, 
but we took the animal from that star in a special crate ,
on which we were last; and that's what I kept in the ship, 
30 an animal that evokes deceptive visions that are delightful to all creatures. 
Burda built this box for him with complex art, 
to block out the hallucinogenic power 
the animal, Faraday's cage was not suitable for it.
I can't even tell you to say the thing scientific principle
35 essential. It's hard for an ordinary mortal to understand. 
However, Burda also made a device or device, 
because he could focus the animal's destructive power, 
on whomever he wanted, and the others would be without influence.
So we also carried this box in the boat and animal.
40 However, when we were already close to that station of theirs,
flying fast, where was that moon and starry
artificial body, which the new men now call by the term "sputnik",
we saw the astronauts hovering there by themselves
 in space quite loosely, and hold fejrs in their hands, 
45 creatures both large and small; and they were wearing spacesuits, 
those that British men also call "space suits".
On their backs they carried boxes in which they had their biophoresis
and also a rocket, of course, which drove them boundlessly through space.
These were clearly one of those timekeepers patrols
50 guarding their station, in addition to other automatic ones.
One of them, a space wolf, began to speak a language
in a very foreign language, but Franta translated it anyway.
“Foreigners, who are you? Where are you sailing through the hollow cosmos? 
Are you in pursuit of a goal or are you just wandering in vain
55 like robbers on the planets here and there,
setting up your life and bringing misery to strangers?”
But here is a station where the time guards live,
Unauthorized beings are forbidden.
But now turn your boat back quickly,
60 so we don't destroy you when we fire the phasers."
So said the elder of the guards there in a terrifying voice.
However, I pushed the crate with the stranger out with the creature, 
from the ship he stuck it out there on the stem through a kind of hollow,
through which the warm air went, he would breathe and keep warm.
65 There was also a device in that device, sending out malignant vibrations
of delicious hallucinations, to a strange sight.
Immediately the leading guards there all fell into a swoon
and now they floated in space, hanging there as if they were dead,
these men looked at the deceptive hallucinations
70 having great pleasure in them and forgetting the starry knowledge.
But Burda, imperfect after all, devised a system,
for the deceptive power flowed back into our boat. 
Immediately a dream took hold of me, even though I was awake at the same time, 
and again I saw virgins who were clothed with little 
75 clothing, or even naked; I saw them and my heart was beating.
Suddenly I woke up again and I was in a cruel bass,
smelly, also dark, in which even the bars
made of steel were strong and hard. The disgusting place was there.
There were also good fellow men there with me
80 four and Franta, a bioplastic robot, was also there with us.
Guards were standing outside holding fejzrs in their hands
two men; they were strange and both most strange.
One was a strange and large monster, as well as fat,
but at the top his head was like a lion's,
85 the other, on the other hand, was small and had a beak like a crow's,
his color was all black, but his eyes were red .
All those strange men in the station were
monsters, monsters different and ridiculous, at the same time terrible.
These gathered here were apparently from far away,
90 from the whole galaxy and they were very strange.
But now Franta told us what everything happened before.
All the members of the patrol hung dejectedly there in a swoon,
but we also all succumbed to the visions in the boat,
the only robot Franta was awake in the ship's boat,
95 because he was bioplastic and had no pleasure center,
but, how I used to pretend, I created a kind of artificiality,
but only stunted and weak ones and canceled them again,
on the day when a difficult trap caught him with its teeth,
so Franta himself was unaffected by these things.
100 But no possibility came to him, because there he mourned, 
because the guardians of time also had a massive shield
from the electromagnetic waves around their station,
so Franta could not call our ship from a distance.
But now the guards also came there, flying to the boat,
105 and when they saw how everyone things happened, 
the Fejrs killed an animal that gave visions,
and then they brought their comrades and us into the station.
They put their good comrades there under the care of a doctor,
but they threw us all into a hard prison there.
110 This the interpreter Franta also told us in the base.
Suddenly, the head chief rushed to the prison cage,
it was a strange and very special monster, a strange sight.
The body was completely similar to a normal person,
but his neck was too long , absolutely terrible, 
115 his neck was as long as a man's whole body, 
thin. And at the end of it was a small terrible head,
which was similar to a sloth in its face,
and verily, there were only two fingers on its hands.
He put his head in the prison there through the bars,
120 looking at us and piercing all of us with his little eyes.
— Two guards were standing nearby, a lion and a beaver,
they aimed their feyzers at us and apparently protected him. —
But he, looking at us, was now speaking eloquent words,
but the interpreter Franta translated all those words.
125 “Foreigners, who are you? Where are you sailing through the hollow cosmos?
Do you seem to have some goal, or are you just wandering in vain
like robbers on planets here and there,
setting up your life and bringing misery to foreigners?
But I think that you are probably robbers,
 130 who wanted to take the time warper from us, a 
miracle of technology, and sell it for millions,
or use it yourself and flee to the past,
and thus escape punishment and revenge, as well as the trial."
So said the chief man and I spoke to him in response: 
135 "No, chief, we men are not robbers, 
but the guards themselves from a planet very far away, 
which in our language I call Terra, or Earth."
And then I also told him everything about that sheep ,
about Mandys and what happened to us on our pilgrimage,
140 but the interpreter Franta translated it all again.
Thus I spoke, and he answered me with a cruel mind:
“You are foolish, stranger, surely in your heart you do you think 
that we will believe you, what you just said falsely.
For we, the guardians of time, have no faith
145 in a being that watches the universe, because we are not stupid in mind.
But it is only a myth from the mathematicians of those men ,
who want to put sacred reverence for their science in our minds,
for their great wisdom and vastly complex knowledge.
But we simple and simple men are all
150 the guardians of time here. The superstition of the ancients is nonsense, 
that a small sheep could possibly hold a great cosmos, 
wide, without all shores and bottomless. That is not possible.
I do not even believe that an animal is translating yours correctly,
for it is an animal and we are mortal men.
155 I do not even believe that the translation is faithful,
but that it mixes everything up and turns it differently, I think,
for it seems logical, but you are stupid in your mind.
But now I will keep you here in hard custody,
until I have my own translator.
160 I will now send for him to another guard station,
distant one. It takes time to cross the great chasm.
But now I will take your translator,
to interrogate him separately to see if he is telling the truth at all,
and I will also arrest your companions and their black boat,
165 which planets revolve around and wait for you .
However, there is no rush, because men are waiting for you."
So said the chief man, my heart broke, my dear.
And then he gave the lion an order to unlock the door,
then he took the skunk with him and left the prison as well .
170 Then we tore our hair and also beat our heads,
all wailing and helplessness seized our minds.
Even though we were godless, in the end we wanted to pray,
if a god might be alive in the depths of the cosmos,
but even so no chaka appeared to those who prayed. 
175 Thus lamenting we waited for the next things. 
But suddenly I found myself there again in our black boat
and all the four comrades who were prisoners with me,
here, in our vessel, behold, he was also the robot Franta.
Then he told us a long story to those who were surprised,
180 but first he spit out a small box from his mouth,
he put it in my hand, and spoke the words of the wings:
"Hail, captain, and rejoice in the strange box,
because the knitter it's time I stole the station inside!
For that chief man did not want to question me at all,
185 but he was seized by Eros, who rules over all in the cosmos,
and this ruler wanted to join me in love here;
but me he set himself there on the top of a large table,
and here he began to lick my buckles with his own tongue.
This, however, gave the ruler a violent sensual pleasure,
190 for he writhed to and fro, moaning heavily.
But when he writhed to and fro in ecstasy, 
here I saw the knitter's box on his desk,
and when I read what was written on the box,
I immediately knew what it was and how to handle it, for example.
195 I immediately closed the knitter in my mouths,
and then with my tongue I pressed the button on it,
so that I would be back in a day, which also happened now.
However, let us leave the station star as quickly as possible now,
for we have what we want, and we are still alive .”
200 So said the interpreter Franta, and all my comrades, 
robots as well as men, praised him by clapping their hands, 
including the captain myself. That was excellently done by Franta.
However, since it was yesterday, we also had our boat again,
and there in the ship's hold there was also an animal, the creator of the vision,
205 because the guardians of time killed him there only tomorrow.
But don't mess with Franta again until yesterday he got,
for he had it in his mouth, and therefore in his own body.
From there with a joyful mind we sailed through the abysses of the cosmos
narrowly escaping death and having the entangler of time,
210 and having that now, both I and my good fellows,
we went To find Mandys and his respective sheep.
But the knitter got back to yesterday with Franta after all,
because he had it in his mouth, and therefore in his own body.
From there with a joyful mind we sailed through the abysses of the cosmos
he narrowly escaped death and having the time knitter,
210 and the one having now , both me and the good fellows, 
we went to look for Mandys and his respective sheep.
But the knitter got back to yesterday with Franta after all,
because he had it in his mouth, and therefore in his own body.
From there with a joyful mind we sailed through the abysses of the cosmos
he narrowly escaped death and having the time knitter,
210 and the one having now , both me and the good fellows, 
we went to look for Mandys and his respective sheep.