STARSHIPS CANTO TWENTY
(About other space pirates and strange planets,
especially about hypnotic animals)
So we sailed on to the planet of the time guards,
but I called a meeting of all my space wolves
(ship me that robot helmsman through the abysses drove)
and all that Grogal told me, I also told them again.
5 Then the good fellows all agreed that
to continue looking for Mandys and the sheep that watches the universe,
and also to the station of the time guards now sailing,
many then beg those noble-headed guardians there, 
to either lend us an excellent knitter at that time, 
10 or to catch or chase Mandys themselves in the times, 
and if they don't want to alone, then steal the complex machine from them, 
so that we can search for ourselves and catch the crafty one Mandu,
and that now is not the time to stop and be softened,
but to work hard, energetically and with all your might,
15 because danger now holds the boundless cosmos
and no one wants to die, unless it is a fool,
but the life of all of us now it is also lying on the dragonflies.
However, while I was still talking, a big and deep voice, in a foreign language,
20 was heard on our radio,
20 and there on the lookout box, a large foreign ship with phaser cannons appeared to the eyes of the sensors. 
However, Franta translated the speech to us again.
"Foreigners, stop sailing, because we are pirates of the cosmos
setting up our lives and bringing misery to foreigners.
25 If you stop and also surrender to us now,
we will not kill you just in I will take captives, 
so that you will be slaves, or we will sell you in the distance.
However, if you do not immediately stop the running of your running ship, 
we will immediately destroy you with fejzer cannons with a cruel mind.”
30 So said the pirate's voice. And anger took hold of my heart. 
I immediately gave the robot an order to spread the 
electromagnetic screen — the one that the ancient men also call the 
curtain* — and we took it then
from the ship of the other pirates, when the strange ones were killed by the birds,
35 quickly also to flee there from the range of phaser weapons.
But again a voice came to us on the radio:
“You are stupid, my dears, that you spread the 
electromagnetic screen — which is an outdated technique.
However, on the contrary, we have our sensors far better,
40 which they will penetrate your screen very easily, 
you don't even have the power to spoil our message.
But stop running away now, because you are certain of dire destruction."
That's what the voice said and I gave the robot the order
to increase the nuclear power as much as possible maybe 
45 to escape the pirates. The android man obeyed immediately.
A terrible, huge force drove the boat here, black
nuclear; she flew fast yonder into the abyss of the great cosmos,
but she carried us far from the path we had taken before
we had intended to sail there to the station of the time-keepers,
50 but now we were carried by that mighty atomic force
into an unknown region of the cosmos of which we had no idea .
Thus now we sailed there through the abysses of empty space
narrowly escaping death, yet utterly lost alone
in a region unknown to us; nuclear force threw us there.
55 However, we tried to slow down the ship's speed now, 
therefore we started firing missiles in the opposite direction,
however, we had no chance of trying to
stop the vessel immediately, because the impulse was very strong.
However, step by step, the great impulse disappeared
60 under the backfire of the rockets and the government returned again
controlling the spaceship to us through the abyss of space.
But Franta also equipped us with many cosmic maps,
also images of many distant stars in the computers,
i also this area that was far from the road,
65 for steal it from the robots, to whom he previously sold his memory
on that planet of theirs, to which they gave the name of the Rebellion,
and then bring it to me also in the ship for reconciliation.
These maps and plans we put in a massive memory
the ruler of all the robots and the computers in our ship.
70 The emperor first called him and Melis later
the male astronauts, as I described earlier.
However, with the help of these maps, we found the way again.
But it was very bad and we had a long journey,
for the atomic force threw us very far.
75 We saw many strange planets then, men,
and we also saw various things floating through space
to our amazement; even I wouldn't be able to tell them all.
We saw a large planet floating through space,
which had large fields of attraction
80 so that beings could not normally reside on it,
but a large ring of sorts revolved around it
and animals lived on it , although reasonable, wild but,
one on one side and another on the other
fighting each other, it was amazing to see.
85 And then we also saw another strange star
double: Many planets revolved around it
in very strange curves , that would be the delight of the stargazers. 
We Tlalochs then came sailing to the planet, 
we would rest and take dark water, 
90 which is always needed by ships on star voyages, 
for the men to drink it, and for the synthesis of food, 
vidouce in its sensors that the planet would carry life. 
Immediately we landed there with our boat on solid ground.
However, the Tlalochs lived there, terrible animals, 
95 perhaps similar to dwarf humans, but 
they only had a head and from that they grew hands
and their legs grew below, they were cephalopods.
The fur on their heads grew very thick
white and their eyes were like large balls.
100 They had a large mouth and their fangs protruded from it
large and very stiff, like The earth has the boars.
They seemed nice and tame to us at first,
but then out of nowhere they started showing malice
without any obvious reason, the mind would know men.
105 Then they jumped here and there with a terrible shriek
 and also up and down — it was pandemonium, 
and jumping out at us with their teeth, they gnashed their teeth. 
Having killed a few there with their malignant fejzers, 
we drove the others away, although they were still roaring terribly, 
110 but then, having collected water there with the help of large hoses, 
 re-entering the ship, we sailed further through the abyss.
Further on, we sailed for a long time, until the ship ran out of water again
and it was necessary again to land on the life-bearing planet
down with the boat and pump up the dark water.
115 But I am down in the space boat sent out the others, 
the rest of us stayed there circling the planet,
however, the men in the skiff entered the planet's plain,
to look at it and draw dark water.
However, the men had been on the star for a very long time,
120 that's why I put our sensors there headed for planet this
with binoculars, then through the viewfinder, I looked for excellent species.
I finally found them sitting somewhere on the grass,
smiling stupidly like some kind of puppets,
staring there with empty eyes as if they were already dead.
125 The animals around them were strangers there , very strange, 
similar to cephalopods, they already live in the sea on Earth,
not exactly, of course, just a little, because they were strange creatures.
However, I ordered the men to land there in the second boat
(our robot Tonda and Burda made us a new ,
130 but it was much smaller than the one that Kyptus stole from us,
for there was not enough metal for it in our ship),
and I chose two of my fellows there who were the best,
with them, and also with Franta, I entered that boat, 
I challenged the fifth robot Iva to sail with us. 
135 Down on the plain, we stopped the space shuttle, 
immediately we all jumped from that boat to the ground
 and we went towards the species that were there they were on the ground,
having fejzers in their hands, because the matter did not seem to us somehow.
But suddenly the strange power somehow covered my eyes,
140 as well as my mind. I was no longer on a foreign star, 
but in the great hall of a very great house somewhere, 
and there were also various girls, very beautiful, 
who were equipped with only a few magnificent clothes, 
or even naked. That heart rejoiced in me.
145 Immediately with an excellent and kind, kind word
the virgins addressed me and gave me food and drink
excellent very good and then they began erotic works.
I don't want to tell everything exactly here in words,
because for that I'm ashamed. However, a sweet time came for me there. 
150 Suddenly I woke up again there in my black boat, 
around me, everyone was my good comrades again, 
all the robots too, and Franta told me everything. 
How did we get to that planet there, men famous,
here, as before, we sat down alone on the ground,
155 just like you guys, me and my comrades both.
However, the two robots, Franta and especially Ivo,
remained unaffected and stood over us in amazement.
 After all, a dream covered Franta's eyes for a short time, 
but a sensible robot immediately shakes off the pernicious dream
160 (as it is bioplastic, it resembles living creatures),
but the robot Ivo remained there unshaken.
But on the other hand, Franta with his internal radiophone
about everything tom he sent a message to our ship black there. 
Immediately some man gave Ivo the robot an order, 
165 again by radio, to kill the animals around us, 
and to bring all the men inside the boat, 
to repel and then connect with the black ship .
This robot Ivo also made hard with his mind
and thus saved the mortal men here from the other planet.
170 However, in the computer memory I found a report
about everything on the planet where we good men came,
and also about animals, which was similar to polyps. 
These creatures were wandering there, other animals
delicious visions of different kinds in their minds,
175 that they no longer ate anything and did not drink their sacrifices,
until they perished, and they then devoured them.
We did not even draw water there water on that planet,
but then we sailed away again through the bottomless cosmos,
narrowly escaping death, we searched for the guard station.
180 However, the stories about the creatures do not end yet,
because we brought one back in the space boat
a small, young one ,as it seemed to us at a glance.
And it also seemed to us that the monster was lying in a swoon.
I first wanted to kill him with my too-bitter phaser,
185 but, when I thought about it, another advice came to me
and I in the ship's warehouse, he put the strange monster in a Faraday cage — which seemed to contain its hypnotic power. And apparently she fed on meat,
so I put an artificial enough in her cage.
190 Cunningly I conceived an idea in my mind with this monstrosity,
which, dear reader, I will later tell you in words.
But now we sailed on through the abysses of the empty cosmos 
to those time guards there station and their house.