STARFLOATING CANTO NINETEENTH
(Oracle of the prophet Grogal)
Thus we sailed there through the abysses of empty space
narrowly escaping death and having Grogal the seer.
We put that one in the fridge there, as before
the robots put my good ones there for me,
5 that one the day when my robots seized the ship
and the others were stored there frozen by the great frost,
with life suspended, as the thing is professionally called
suspended animation by the Britannian men of today.
Into this refrigerator we now put Grogal a man,
10 so that we, you are already dead, he would not have perished if he had been warm.
However, I ordered the ship to stop now in the middle of the void,
for we did not now know the direction in which we should go,
until we once again ask Grogal, the great seer.
However, I also ordered two men he took with him to ask him, 
15 dead star swimmer, which we took from it for months, 
the polytechnic was Burda and the doctor also Elefant, 
interpreter Franta was the third, he would translate everyone's speech.
Men took Grogal from the refrigerator, good comrades, 
and now they put a pair of electrodes on his temples
20 and they began to stimulate his brain with them.
Immediately the man, frozen and dead, began to speak,
just as if a man had begun to speak from sleep,
he began to speak in a slow, deep voice speaking
in the ancient language of the Grogals, which has now become extinct again,
25 but even so, his speech was translated for us by the interpreter Franta
easily and very fluently, because it was very well done.
However, the Grogal man spoke powerful words:
"Why, angry foreigner , are you waking me up from my sweet swoon
the second time again? After all, I told you everything.
30 But you don't need to wake a person from sleep,
because I don't want to live anymore and suffer pain in life,
as I had previously told you in a word."
That's what he said. I then spoke to him again in response
 (however, the interpreter Franta translated all the speeches):
35 "I have come, ruler, to beg you and earnestly ask you, 
prophet, to prophesy about Mandysa and his sheep,
which watches the universe. He stole it, with malicious intent
and now he carries it further across the empty boundless universe
threatening to destroy everything that is with his hideous mind.
40 As I asked you the first time when I first met you,
but you you just said mysterious words to me there, 
impenetrable, dark that I don't have the power to understand, 
the thing about the gold and dung and then even more 
cutting the fabric of time. This thing is a mystery to me.
45 For five earth years we men sailed through space
Looking for Mandys and the sheep that watches the space,
but no possibility appeared to us in the search.
At last we sailed back to the planet of Grogal men,
to moon, on which your grave was in that vaulted sluj,
50 to implore your sacred power and to learn from you
the core of the mysterious divination and its essential meaning.
But there on the moon now strange monsters reside
four-legged, with extra arms and heads on the manner of birds, 
like the centaurs, but strange, to a strange sight,
55 they rule the shaggy Grogals and have them as slaves.
But those quadrupeds made a sanctuary around you,
they gave them monsters to guard, which are only energy,
you but we killed the fejzers turned around.
But we didn't have the opportunity to ask you in the middle of the temple.
60 That is why we stole you and put you in our ship, 
and now, floating through the cosmos, we beg you with many words. 
But you, ruler, have mercy, because we have been flying through the cosmos for a long time." 
This is what I said and Franta translated the speech mine.
But here Onufrij Grogal answered me with the following words:
65 "Why, little man, do you want to save a single universe by yourself?
There are too many universes and no one knows their number.
However, I will tell you that you stole me from the four-legged ones,
odious, because they have chosen me as their god, 
but my own nation, those Grogals, are enslaved there. 
70 That is why I rejoice now and that is why I am also grateful to you, 
and so I will unravel the mystery of my first prophecy for you now: 
It is somewhere in the wide cosmos there one of the asteroids,
small, but it is all, behold, made of pure gold.
Therefore it is also dense and has enough gravitational force,
75 to hold air and be able to have life on it.
This asteroid has a core of pure gold, 
but on the outside it is covered with sheep dung;
hence a foul smell reigns there on the golden planet,
but from the dung there grows luxuriant vegetation.
80 And on that small planet there are many sheep,
here and Mandys now live there in of one arched servant
as the shepherd shepherds those sheep and has his magical sheep.
It will be very difficult to find that little planet,
but after all I have told you where Mandys is now hiding,
85 so that you can properly search and find him.
 But now I will tell you, and you keep it in your mind, 
everything you should know about cutting the fabric of time.
For you will not be able to directly seize Mandys
but you will escape again, and you will have to chase him.
90 Therefore listen now , because it's not easy to understand: 
Mandys escapes into the past on her escape,
because of the gold and wealth, the gold she produces,
and you will have the task of chasing her down in the past tense.
That's why you'll need that terrible technical thing,
 95 which the learned men now call the weavers of time. 
Know, therefore, stranger, now about time, form and body,
which is unknown to many and known only to a few men.
You do not even have the strength to understand this knowledge on your own,
but it is possible for you explain it a little with the help of images,
100 with the help of an analogy and some kind of simile.
Know then that time is like a big ring,
which has two surfaces that lie opposite each other.
Let one of those surfaces mark the presence for you,
and also the future time, or it can be reached from the present.
105 But the past time, which is not available from the present,
therefore the past time is like the other side of a ring,
because it is impossible to pass through that ring.
I will tell you something else, you keep it in your mind,
even though it is very difficult, a mere human would understand it.
110 It is not at all like what I am trying to tell you now,
but completely different. As if you were trying to explain something to a small child, which he could not yet understand. However, if you had a ring made of light paper, 
then this ring would have two sides as well, 
115 and if you then cut the ring in a complete circle, 
across, you would then form a sort of belt.
If you now connect the end of one of them
with its outer surface to the surface of the other inner one,
you would again have a ring, but different from the first one.
120 Now it will be a ring so twisted, in a strange way
just as in the Arabs' number there is a symbol for one number,
which in their way is the sign of the number eight.
However, this ring is called by mathematicians
the Möbius ring, and it is a great miracle.
125 If someone wanted to color two of its sides ,
he could not paint its two sides with two colors,
but it has only one surface, and not two, as it would seem,
even though the color will appear from the outside and from the inside.
If some ant wanted to walk on that ring,
130 just once on the way, a pišishvora would cross it all the way
and while doing so, this pišishvora would walk from outside and inside this pišishvora,
but two pišishvoras could sit opposite each other
on that ring, the one from outside and the one inside.
There is nothing above nature itself there is nothing more wonderful.
135 But time itself resembles a ring also
as I first said. And if a person
from the present time wanted to disappear in the past time,
he would have to make a Möbius ring out of a normal
ring, as I said, he could travel back.
140 This is probably the best way I can explain it to you,
however true it's different, but you can't understand it.
But to do this — you need to have the technique for it
time weaver machines. And I think that Mandys owns it. 
However, there are some beings in those empty spaces of the cosmos
145 beings or beings, and collected from all kinds of planets,
indeed, who are called and are called the guardians of time,
who are some kind of guardians and guard the pilgrims in of time,
so that a reasonable being out there in the hollow bowels of the cosmos
traveling in time would not spoil their past.
150 These time weavers are the only ones who legally have them,
but no other, that would be a serious crime.
But I certainly believe that Mandys the weaver has stolen 
and that he is hiding from the guards on the astroid,
he digs for gold on it and accumulates wealth like this,
155 until he has enough of it, as much as the vessel can carry,
but then he will want to slip into the past,
 with his abundant gold, and with the sheep that watches the universe.
But no one knows now what would become of the universe,
if Mandys carried that sheep to the former time.
160 For in the present time he looks at the present universe,
whereas he carries her time always in the future, moving forward.
But if, on the other hand, she looks at past times,
she could easily destroy the universe that is now
but in the time that was, that Mandys very cunning
165 could easily live, because no one would be able to chase him, 
not even the guardians of time and not even you, the cosmic swimmer, 
because no one would live anymore in the future time, 
not even time itself, because the sheep would not see him.
This is what I believe, the pervert Mandys wants to prepare.
170 But the guards either have no idea about the theft,
or they can't find Mandys thief anywhere.
You now have a necessity and it is your strong duty
to catch Mandys before he disappears into the past.
But even if he ran away , you have the duty to pursue him
175 and then catch him even in the past time on Earth,
so that the past that will be there is not destroyed by Mandys,
he flees even further, he would spoil the past first.
But he is on the hunt for for example, that machine 
which is the weaver of time, and the guardians have it with them.
180 But now you need to sail with the boat black
to those guardians of time. And I'll show you the place."
— And he showed me that too, which need not be described here. —
“Then many beg the guardians of those noble heads of time,
to either catch Mandys themselves or chase them in time,
185 or lend you an excellent weaver of the time,
and if they don’t want to themselves, then steal the complex machine from them.
It’s not even now is the time perhaps to stop and be softened, 
because danger now haunts the boundless cosmos.
Otherwise I will tell you something, and you store it in your mind: 
190 If someone were to cut open the ring of Möbius the ruler,
through its length, there would not be two new,
but only one ring, which is twice as long as the first.
But if you were to cut the new ring anyway,
two rings would be formed, and separate from each other, no longer connected.
195 But if you could do this with the ring of time,
you could you would protect the universe from Mandys, somehow doubling it, 
because now Mandys only one of the two could destroy 
time and the other would remain the cosmos as it was before.
But to do this — it must be a cutter of time.
200 But I in I have this device hidden in my stomach.
I swallowed it once when there was a danger,
that some intelligent being could steal it,
but now I want to give you that device, you stranger.
I will tell you the matter another time and you keep it in your her mind: 
205 You won't be able to stimulate my brain to activity for a long time, 
because it is dead, and the warm one will immediately begin to decompose. 
and I will no longer be able to tell you certain prophecies.
210 But you may no longer have a star oracle,
and therefore now bury me there in the empty abysses of the cosmos,
throwing me out of your ship. But before you do this, 
cut my body and take the time cutter.
Now be healthy, man, and I wish you the best of luck.
215 Gygla ygyggla ygyglaygygla ygygla ygygla.”
Thus said the man Grogal, and I recognized his speech ,
that rot has now taken away his brain and reason.
The doctor Elefás now opened it and took out the device
terrible, with the help of which time itself is split along its length.
220 It was not big, it was small, the great technology was a miracle.
We are they then threw there into the empty abysses of the cosmos.
However, I then gave the robot an order to the helmsman
to steer our vessel in the direction Grogal said.
Then we sailed there to the planet of the time guards,
225 now having a very special knowledge of the cosmos and that sheep.
because now Mandys only one of the two could destroy
time and the other would remain the cosmos as it was before.
But to do this — that is a cutter of time.
200 But I have this device stored in my belly.
I am he swallowed once, when there was a danger, 
that some intelligent being could steal it, 
but now I want to give you that device, you stranger. 
Otherwise I will tell you something and you store it in your mind: 
205 You will not be able to tell me for a long time stimulate the brain to activity, 
because it is dead, and the warm will immediately begin to decompose.
So as soon as I start saying something that does not make sense, 
it will be a sign to you that rot has seized the brain, 
and I will no longer be able to tell you certain prophecies. 
210 But for you there is no longer a star oracle,
and therefore now bury me there in the empty abysses of the cosmos,
throwing me out of your ship. But before you do this, 
cut my body and take the time cutter.
Now be healthy, man, and I wish you the best of luck.
215 Gygla ygyggla ygyglaygygla ygygla ygygla.”
Thus said the man Grogal, and I recognized his speech ,
that rot has now taken away his brain and reason.
The doctor Elefás now opened it and took out the device
terrible, with the help of which time itself is split along its length.
220 It was not big, it was small, the great technology was a miracle.
We are they then threw there into the empty abysses of the cosmos.
However, I then gave the robot an order to the helmsman
to steer our vessel in the direction Grogal said.
Then we sailed there to the planet of the time guards,
225 now having a very special knowledge of the cosmos and that sheep.
because now Mandys only one of the two could destroy
time and the other would remain the cosmos as it was before.
But to do this — that is a cutter of time.
200 But I have this device stored in my belly.
I am he swallowed once, when there was a danger, 
that some intelligent being could steal it, 
but now I want to give you that device, you stranger. 
Otherwise I will tell you something and you store it in your mind: 
205 You will not be able to tell me for a long time stimulate the brain to activity, 
because it is dead, and the warm will immediately begin to decompose.
So as soon as I start saying something that does not make sense, 
it will be a sign to you that rot has seized the brain, 
and I will no longer be able to tell you certain prophecies. 
210 But you may no longer be a star oracle, 
and therefore now bury me there in the empty abysses of the cosmos, 
throwing me out of your ship. But before you do this, 
cut my body and take the time cutter.
Now be healthy, man, and I wish you the best of luck.
215 Gygla ygyggla ygyglaygygla ygygla ygygla.”
Thus said the man Grogal, and I recognized his speech ,
that rot has now taken away his brain and reason.
The doctor Elefás now opened it and took out the device
terrible, with the help of which time itself is split along its length.
220 It was not big, it was small, the great technology was a miracle.
We are they then threw there into the empty abysses of the cosmos.
However, I then gave the robot an order to the helmsman
to steer our vessel in the direction Grogal said.
Then we sailed there to the planet of the time guards,
225 now having a very special knowledge of the cosmos and that sheep.