ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲉϥⲛⲁⲩ ⲇⲉ ⲉ ⲙⲙⲏⲏϣⲉ ⲁϥⲁⲗⲉ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲙ ⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ.
blessed are those

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲉϥϩⲙⲟⲟⲥ ⲁⲩϯ ⲡⲉⲩⲟⲩⲟⲓ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲛⲉϥⲙⲁⲑⲏⲧⲏⲥ.
and when he sat down they gave their rush to him namely his disciples

ⲁϥⲟⲩⲱⲛ ⲉⲣⲱϥ ⲁϥϯ ⲥⲃⲱ ⲛⲁⲩ ⲉϥϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ.
he opened his mouth he gave teaching to them saying this

ϫⲉ ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛϩⲏⲕⲉϩ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲡⲛⲉⲩⲙⲁ ϫⲉ ⲧⲱⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲧⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
that blessed are those who are poor in spirit that theirs is the kingdom of heaven

ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲣ ϩⲏⲃⲉ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲉⲧⲟⲩⲛⲁⲥⲡⲥⲱⲡⲟⲩ.
blessed are those who make mourning that they are those who will be conforted themself

ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲣⲙⲣⲁϣ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲁⲕⲗⲏⲣⲟⲛⲟⲙⲉⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲕⲁϩ.
blessed are the gentle that they are those who will inherit the earth

ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧϩⲕⲁⲉⲓⲧ ⲉⲧⲟⲃⲉ ⲛ ⲧⲇⲓⲕⲁⲓⲟⲥⲩⲛⲏ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲁⲥⲉⲓ.
blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness that they will be filled (ⲉⲓⲃⲉ = thirst Q=ⲟⲃⲉ)

ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲛⲁϩⲏⲧ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲉⲧⲟⲩⲛⲁⲛⲁ ⲛⲁⲩ.
blessed are those that they will be shown mercy to them

ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲩϩⲏⲧ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛⲁⲩ ⲉ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ.
blessed are those who are pure in their hearts that the will see god

ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲣⲉϥⲣⲉⲓⲣⲏⲛⲏ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲉⲧⲟⲩⲛⲁⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲟⲩ ϫⲉ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ.
blessed are those who make peace that they will be called to them the children of god

ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲡⲱⲧ ⲛⲥⲱⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲧⲇⲓⲕⲁⲓⲟⲥⲩⲛⲏ ϫⲉ ⲧⲱⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲧⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
blessed are those who are pursued because of righteousness that yours is the kingdom of heaven

ⲛⲁⲓⲁⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲉⲩϣⲁⲛⲛⲉϭⲛⲉϭⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ.
blessed are you when they reproach you 

ⲛⲥⲉⲡⲱⲧ ⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ.
and they pursue you all

ⲛⲥⲉϫⲉ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲉⲩϫⲓϭⲟⲗ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲉⲧⲃⲏⲏⲧ.
and say everything which is evil toward you acussing you for my sack

ⲣⲁϣⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲉⲗⲏⲗ ϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲃⲉⲕⲉ ⲛⲁϣⲱϥ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲛ ⲙ ⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
be glad and rejoice that (ⲛⲁϣⲉ- = be great ⲛⲁϣⲱ=)

ⲧⲁⲓ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲧⲉ ⲧϩⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲡⲱⲧ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲛⲉⲡⲣⲟⲫⲏⲧⲏⲥ ⲉⲧϩⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛϩⲏ.
ask coptic group......ⲉⲧϩⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛ ϩⲏ why the extra "ϩⲏ"

ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲡⲉ ⲡⲉϩⲙⲟⲩ ⲙ ⲡⲕⲁϩ ⲉⲣϣⲁⲛⲡⲉϩⲙⲟⲩ ⲇⲉ ⲃⲁⲁⲃⲉ ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲙⲟⲗϩϥ ⲛ ⲟⲩ.
you are the salt of the earth and if the salt become insipid they will salt it in what?

ⲙⲉϥⲣϣⲁⲩ ⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲛⲟϫϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲥⲉϩⲟⲙϥ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲛⲉⲣⲱⲙⲉ.
not it makes useful in anything except casting it away and they trample it (it be trampled) by men

ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲡⲉⲡⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ ⲙ ⲡⲕⲟⲥⲙⲟⲥ.
you are the light of the world

ⲙⲛϣϭⲟⲙ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲡⲟⲗⲓⲥ ⲉ ϩⲱⲡ ⲉⲥⲕⲏ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲓϫⲛ ⲟⲩⲧⲟⲟⲩ
there is no power of a city to hide, being located up on the head of a hill

ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ⲙⲉⲩϫⲉⲣⲉ ⲟⲩϩⲏⲃⲥ ⲛⲥⲉⲕⲁⲁϥ ϩⲁ ⲟⲩϣⲓ.
nor not they kindle a candle stick and they place it under a basket

ⲁⲗⲗⲁ ⲛϣⲁⲩⲕⲁⲁϥ ϩⲓϫⲛ ⲧⲗⲩⲭⲛⲓⲁ ⲛϥⲣⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ ⲉ ⲛⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ϩⲙ ⲡⲏⲓ.
but do they not place it on a light stand? and it shines to all those in the house

ⲧⲁⲓ ⲧⲉ ⲧϩⲉ ⲙⲁⲣⲉϥⲣⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲧⲉⲧⲛⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲙⲧⲟ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲩⲉⲛⲁⲩ ⲉ ⲛⲉⲧⲛϩⲃⲏⲩⲉ ⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩⲟⲩ ⲛⲥⲉϯ ⲉⲟⲟⲩ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙ ⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
that is in this way may it shine namely your light in the midst of men in order that they see your works which are good and they give glory (glorify) your father who is in heaven

ⲙⲡⲣⲱϣ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲉⲓ ⲉ ⲕⲁⲧⲁⲗⲩ ⲙ ⲡⲛⲟⲙⲟⲥ ⲏ ⲛⲉⲡⲣⲟⲫⲏⲧⲏⲥ.
dont reccon that it was to loosen the law of the profets that I came

ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲉⲓ ⲁⲛ ⲉ ⲕⲁⲧⲁⲗⲩ ⲙ ⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲁⲗⲗⲁ ⲉ ϫⲱⲕⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ.
to loosen them not I came but to fulfil them

ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ ⲅⲁⲣ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ.
amen for I say this to you all

ϫⲉ ϣⲁⲛⲧⲉ ⲧⲡⲉ ⲡⲁⲣⲁⲅⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲕⲁϩ ⲟⲩⲓⲱⲧⲁ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲱⲧ.
that until the sky pass by and the earth  an iota itself

ⲏ ⲟⲩϣⲱⲗϩ ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ⲛⲛⲉⲩⲥⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲛⲟⲙⲟⲥ ϣⲁⲛⲧⲟⲩϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ.
or a line/mark itself not will pass over (ⲥⲓⲛⲉ) out of the law until all of them they come about

ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲃⲱⲗ ϭⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲓ ⲉⲛⲧⲟⲗⲏ ⲉⲧⲥⲟⲃⲕ ⲛϥϯⲥⲃⲱ ⲛⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲓϩⲉ ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲗⲁⲭⲓⲥⲧⲟⲥ ϩⲛ ⲧⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲁⲁⲩ ⲇⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥϯⲥⲃⲱ ⲛ ϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲡⲛⲟϭ ϩⲛ ⲧⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲙ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ.
therefore he who will loosen away one of these laws which are small (ⲥⲃⲟⲕ) and teach men in this manner 

ϯϫⲱ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ.
For I say to you all

ϫⲉ ⲉⲥϣⲁⲛⲧⲙⲣϩⲟⲩⲟ ⲛϭⲓ ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲇⲓⲕⲁⲓⲟⲥⲩⲛⲏ ⲛ ϩⲟⲩⲟ ⲉ ⲧⲁⲛⲉⲅⲣⲁⲙⲙⲁⲧⲉⲩⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲫⲁⲣⲓⲥⲥⲁⲓⲟⲥ ⲛⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ ⲧⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
that if not it be greater (ⲣ ϩⲟⲩⲟ) namely you righteousness more than that of the grammarians and pharisees you will not enter into the kingdom of the heavens

ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩϫⲟⲟⲥ ⲛⲛⲁⲣⲭⲁⲓⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲕϩⲱⲧⲃ.
you have heard that it is said in the olden times that you will not murder

ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁϩⲱⲧⲃ ⲇⲉ ϥⲟ ⲛ ⲉⲛⲟⲭⲟⲥ ⲉ ⲧⲉⲕⲣⲓⲥⲓⲥ.
and he who will murder is liable to the judgement

ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϭⲥ ⲉ ⲡⲉϥⲥⲟⲛ ⲉⲓⲕⲏ ϥⲟ ⲛ ⲉⲛⲟⲭⲟⲥ ⲉ ⲧⲉⲕⲣⲓⲥⲓⲥ.
but I say this to you that everyone who will be angry at his brother in vain/without cause is liable to the judgement 

ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁϫⲟⲟⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲉϥⲥⲟⲛ ϫⲉ ⲕϣⲟⲩⲉⲓⲧ ϥⲟ ⲛ ⲉⲛⲟⲭⲟⲥ ⲉ ⲡⲥⲩⲛϩⲉⲇⲣⲓⲟⲛ.
he who will say to his brother that you are nothing is liabel to the synagoge

ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁϫⲟⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲡⲥⲟϭ ϥⲟ ⲛ ⲉⲛⲟⲭⲟⲥ ⲉⲧⲅⲉϩⲉⲛⲛⲁ ⲛ ⲥⲁⲧⲉ.
he who will say that oh fool (ⲡⲥⲟϭ entry in Crum) is liable to the firery Gehenna.

ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲕϣⲁⲛⲉⲓ ⲉⲕⲛⲁⲧⲁⲗⲟ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲇⲱⲣⲟⲛ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲙ ⲡⲉⲑⲩⲥⲓⲁⲥⲧⲏⲣⲓⲟⲛ.
and if you would go and will lift/offer you gift up onto the altar

ⲛⲅⲣ ⲡⲙⲉⲉⲩⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩⲛⲧⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲟⲛⲟⲩ ϩⲱⲃ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ.
and you make memory in the place which is there that there is to your brother a thing into you

ⲕⲱ ⲙ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲇⲱⲣⲟⲛ ϩⲓⲧϩⲏⲙ ⲡⲉⲑⲩⲥⲓⲁⲥⲧⲏⲣⲓⲟⲛ ⲛⲅⲃⲱⲕ ⲛϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲛⲅϩⲱⲧⲡ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲟⲛ.
leave in the place which is there your gift before the altar and go first and reconcile with your brother.

ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ⲛⲅⲉⲓ ⲛⲅⲧⲁⲗⲟ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲇⲱⲣⲟⲛ.
then go and offer up your gift

ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲕⲟⲩⲱⲱⲙⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲧϫⲓϩⲁⲡ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲕ ϩⲛ ⲟⲩϭⲉⲡⲏ ⲉⲛ ϩⲟⲥⲟⲛ ⲕϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲛⲙⲙⲁϥ ϩⲓ ⲧⲉϩⲓⲏ ⲙⲏⲡⲟⲧⲉ ⲛⲧⲉ ⲡⲉⲧϫⲓϩⲁⲡ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲕ ⲧⲁⲁⲕ ⲉⲧⲟⲟⲧϥ ⲙ ⲡⲣⲉϥϯϩⲁⲡ ⲛⲧⲉ ⲡⲣⲉϥϯϩⲁⲡ ⲧⲁⲁⲕ ⲉⲧⲟⲟⲧϥ ⲙ ⲡϩⲩⲡⲉⲣⲉⲧⲏⲥ ⲛⲥⲉⲛⲟϫⲕ ⲉ ⲡⲉϣⲧⲉⲕⲟ.
be you accomodating you with he who receives judgement with you in a hurry in as long as you are with him on the road lest ever also he who receives justice gives you to the hand of the one who gives justice and the one who gives justice gives you to the servant and they cast you into the prison.

ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲁⲕ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲕⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϣⲁⲛⲧⲉⲕϯ ⲙ ⲡϩⲁⲉ ⲛⲕⲟⲛⲇⲣⲁⲛⲧⲏⲥ.
Amen I say this to you that you will not go out of that place until give the last kodrantin

ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩϫⲟⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲕⲣⲛⲟⲉⲓⲕ.
you heard that it was said that you will not commit adultery

ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩⲟⲛⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲛⲁϭⲱϣⲧ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲟⲩⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲉ ⲉⲡⲓⲑⲩⲙⲉⲓⲉⲣⲟⲥ.
but I say this to you that everyone who will look after a women for desire

ⲁϥⲟⲩⲱ ⲉϥⲣⲛⲟⲉⲓⲕ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉϥϩⲏⲧ.
he has come to pass/finished him commiting adultery with her in his heart

ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲃⲁⲗ ⲇⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲛⲁⲙ ⲥⲕⲁⲛⲇⲁⲗⲓⲍⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲡⲟⲣⲕϥ ⲛⲅⲛⲟϫϥ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲥⲉⲣⲛⲟϥⲣⲉ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛⲁⲕ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉϥⲉϩⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϭⲓ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲕⲙⲉⲗⲟⲥ ⲛⲥⲉⲧⲙⲛⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲱⲙⲁ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲉ ⲧⲅⲉϩⲉⲛⲛⲁ ⲛ ⲥⲁⲧⲉ.
and if your right eye skandalizes you pluck it and cast it back behind you for it is made better for you that you in order that it will fall away namely one of your members and not all of your body be cast into fiery Gehenna

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲧⲉⲕϭⲓϫ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲛⲁⲙ ⲥⲕⲁⲛⲇⲁⲗⲓⲍⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲥⲟⲗⲡⲥ ⲛⲅⲛⲟϫⲥ ⲛⲥⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ.
and if you your right hand skandalizes you cut it off and cast it back behind you.

ⲥⲉⲣⲛⲟϥⲣⲉ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛⲁⲕ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉϥⲉϩⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϭⲓ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲕⲙⲉⲗⲟⲥ.
for it is made better for you in order that it be falling from you namely one of your members.

ⲛⲥⲉⲧⲙⲛⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲱⲙⲁ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲉ ⲧⲅⲉϩⲉⲛⲛⲁ.
and not it be cast all your body into gehenna

ⲁⲩϫⲟⲟⲥ ⲇⲉ ϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲧⲉϥⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲙⲁⲣⲉϥϯ ⲛⲁⲥ ⲛ ⲟⲩϫⲱⲱⲙⲉ ⲛ ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓⲟ.
and it was said that he who will cast away his wife let him give her a book of repayment (ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓⲟ m.)

ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲧⲉϥⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲁϫⲛ ϣⲁϫⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲟⲣⲛⲉⲓⲁ.
But I say this to you that he who will cast away his wife without a matter of adultery

ϥⲛⲁⲧⲣⲉⲩⲣ ⲛⲟⲉⲓⲕ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ.
he will cause that they commit adultery with her

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁϩⲙⲟⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲉⲁⲡⲉⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲟϫⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϥⲟ ⲛ ⲛⲟⲉⲓⲕ.
and he who will sit with (marry) one whose husband cast her away is commiting adultery

ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲟⲛ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩϫⲟⲟⲥ ϩⲛ ⲛⲁⲣⲭⲁⲓⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲕⲱⲣⲕ ⲛ ⲛⲟⲩϫ ⲉⲕⲉϯ ⲇⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲕⲁⲛⲁⲩϣ ⲙ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ.
again you have heard that it was asaid in olden time that you shall not swear false thing and you shall give your oath to the lord

ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲙⲡⲣⲱⲣⲕ ⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲙⲡⲣⲱⲣⲕ ⲛ ⲧⲡⲉ ϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲑⲣⲟⲛⲟⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲉ.
but I say this to you that dont swear on anything, dont swear on the sky that the throne of god it is 

ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ⲙⲡⲣⲱⲣⲕ ⲙ ⲡⲕⲁϩ ϫⲉ ⲡϩⲩⲡⲟⲡⲟⲇⲓⲟⲛ ⲛ ⲛⲉϥⲟⲩⲉⲣⲏⲧⲉ ⲡⲉ ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ⲙⲡⲣⲱⲣⲕ ⲛ ⲧϩⲓⲉⲣⲟⲩⲥⲁⲗⲏⲙ ϫⲉ ⲧⲡⲟⲗⲓⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲛⲟϭ ⲛ ⲣⲣⲟ ⲧⲉ.
nor swear on the earth that the food stool of his feet it is nor swear on israel that the city of the great king

ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ⲙⲡⲣⲱⲣⲕ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲕⲁⲡⲉ ϫⲉ ⲙⲛϣϭⲟⲙ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲉⲧⲣⲉ ⲟⲩϥⲱ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲱⲧ ⲟⲩⲃⲁϣ ⲏ ⲛϥⲕⲙⲟⲙ.
nor swear on your head that there is no power to you to cause a hair itself to be white or also it to be black

ⲙⲁⲣⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛϣⲁϫⲉ ⲇⲉ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛⲥⲉ ⲛⲥⲉ.
but let your word be ####### look up "nse" in Crum

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲛ ⲛ ⲙⲙⲟⲛ.
and no no

ⲡⲉϩⲟⲩⲟ ⲇⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲡⲟⲛⲏⲣⲟⲥ ⲡⲉ.
And the more than these things a something out of the evil one it is

ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩϫⲟⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩⲃⲁⲗ ⲉ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲃⲁⲗ ⲟⲩⲟϩⲃⲉ ⲉ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲟϩⲃⲉ.
you have heard it said that an eye for an eye a tooth for a tooth

ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲙⲡⲣⲁϩⲉⲣⲁⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲟⲩⲃⲉ ⲡⲡⲉⲧϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲁⲗⲗⲁ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲣⲁϩⲧⲕ ⲉ ⲧⲉⲕⲟⲩⲟϭⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲛⲁⲙ ⲕⲧⲟ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛ ⲧⲕⲉⲧⲉ.
but I say this to you all that that dont stand up yourselves against that which is evil but he who will strike you on your right cheek turn to him your other

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉ ϫⲓϩⲁⲡ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲕ ⲉϥⲓ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲕϣⲧⲏⲛ ⲕⲱ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲥⲱϥ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲕⲉϩⲟⲓⲧⲉ.
and he who wishes to receive justive with you to take your shirt place away to him your cloak 

ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲕⲟⲟⲃⲉⲕ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲕⲟⲧ ⲃⲱⲕ ⲛⲙⲙⲁϥ ⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ.
he who will ##### you a ####### go with him two

ⲡⲉⲧⲁⲓⲧⲉⲓ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ϯ ⲛⲁϥ.
he who requests you give to him

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉ ϫⲓ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲧⲕ ⲙⲡⲣⲕⲧⲟϥ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ.
and he who wishes to take from your hands dont turn him back behind you

ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩϫⲟⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲉⲕⲉⲙⲉⲣⲉ ⲡⲉⲧϩⲓⲧⲟⲩⲱⲕ ⲛⲅⲙⲉⲥⲧⲉ ⲛⲉⲕϫⲁϫⲉ.
you have heard that it is said that you shall love you neighbor and you shall hate your enemy

ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ.
but I say this to you

ϫⲉ ⲙⲉⲣⲉ ⲛⲉⲧⲛϫⲓⲛϫⲉⲉⲩⲉ.
that love those who are in the state of anger

ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲗⲏⲗ ⲉϫⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲡⲏⲧ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ.
and pray upon those who are in the state of pursuing you

ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
so that you become sons of your father who is in heaven

ϫⲉ ϥⲧⲣⲉ ⲡⲉϥⲣⲏ ϣⲁ ⲉϫⲛ ⲛ ⲁⲅⲁⲑⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲙⲡⲟⲛⲏⲣⲟⲥ.
that he causes his sun to rise on the good and the wicked

ⲁⲩⲱ ϥϩⲱⲟⲩ ⲉϫⲛ ⲛⲇⲓⲕⲁⲓⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲣⲉϥϫⲓ ⲛ ϭⲟⲛⲥ.
and it rains on the just and those who receive violence

ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲁⲛⲙⲉⲣⲉ ⲛⲉⲧⲙⲉ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲙⲙⲱⲧⲛ ⲁϣ ⲡⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲃⲉⲕⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲩⲛⲧⲏⲧⲛϥ.
if you love those who................ (look up in horner and ask on forum)

ⲛⲧⲉⲗⲱⲛⲏⲥ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲁⲛ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲓ ϩⲉ.
the tax collectors they act not in this way?

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲁⲛⲁⲥⲡⲁⲍⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲙⲙⲁⲧⲉ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉ ⲡⲉϩⲟⲩⲟ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲟϥ.
and if you greet your fellows (ⲉⲣⲏⲩ = fellow, each other), what is the more you do it?

ⲛⲕⲉϩⲉⲑⲛⲟⲥ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲁⲛ ⲙ ⲡⲁⲓ.
not also (ⲕⲉ = another/also) the gentiles do this?

ϣⲱⲡⲉ ϭⲉ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲛⲧⲉⲗⲓⲟⲥ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ ⲉⲩⲧⲉⲗⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲉ.
be therefore you all be perfect in the manner of your father who is (ⲡⲉ is end of sentecne) in the heavens which are being perfect
