ϯ-ϩⲧⲏⲧⲛ ⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛϯ ⲉ-ⲧⲙ-ⲁⲁϥ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲙⲧⲟ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲩⲉⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ.
give heart to your giving not to do it in the midst of men in order they will see you all 

ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲛ ⲙⲛⲧⲏⲧⲛ ⲃⲉⲕⲉ ⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲁϩⲣⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
if not there will be no reward to you there in the presence of your father who is in heaven

ϩⲟⲧⲁⲛ ϭⲉ ⲕϣⲁⲛⲧⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲙⲛⲧⲛⲁ ⲙⲡⲣⲱϣ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲁ ⲧⲉⲕϩⲏ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉ ⲛϩⲩⲡⲟⲕⲣⲓⲧⲏⲥ ⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲛ ⲛⲥⲩⲛⲁⲅⲱⲅⲏ ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲛ ⲛϩⲓⲣ.
therefore whenever you would do a mercy dont cry out under your breast in the manner which the hypocrites do it up in the synagogues and up in the streets.

ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲩⲉϫⲓ ⲉⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ.
in order they receive glory out through the hands of men

ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩⲟⲩⲱ ⲉⲩϫⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲩⲃⲉⲕⲉ.
amen I say this to you that they finished receiving their wage

ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲕⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲙⲛⲧⲛⲁ ⲙⲡⲣⲧⲣⲉ ⲧⲉⲕϩⲃⲟⲩⲣ ⲉⲓⲙⲉ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉ ⲧⲉⲕⲟⲩⲛⲁⲙ ⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲟϥ.
and you doing a mercy not cause your left to know that what is that you right hand does it

ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲣⲉ ⲧⲉⲕⲙⲛⲧⲛⲁ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ϩⲛ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧϩⲏⲡ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲕⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧϭⲱϣⲧ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲙ ⲡⲡⲉⲧϩⲏⲡ ϥⲛⲁⲧⲱⲱⲃⲉ ⲛⲁⲕ.
in order that your mercies come about in that which is hidden and your father who observes you in the that which is hidden he will repay(ⲧⲱⲱⲃⲉ, ⲧⲟⲟⲃ=: to repay)

ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓ ⲇⲉ ⲉ ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁϣⲗⲏⲗ ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲛ ⲛϩⲩⲡⲟⲕⲣⲓⲧⲏⲥ ϫⲉ ⲥⲉⲙⲉ ⲛ ⲁϩⲉⲣⲁⲧⲟⲩ ϩⲛ ⲛⲥⲩⲛⲁⲅⲱⲅⲏ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲕⲗϫⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲡⲗⲁϯⲁ ⲉ ϣⲗⲏⲗ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲩⲉⲟⲩⲱⲛϩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ.
and you going to your prayers not will you be in the manner of these hypocrites that they love of standing in the synagoges and the corners of the plazas to pray in order that they might appear to men

ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩⲟⲩⲱ ⲉⲩϫⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲩⲃⲉⲕⲉ.
amen I say this to you that they finished receiving there wages

ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲕⲛⲁϣⲗⲏⲗ ⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲧⲁⲙⲉⲓⲟⲛ ⲛⲅϣⲧⲁⲙ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲣⲟ.
and you will pray go into your closed off space and close your door

ⲛⲅϣⲗⲏⲗ ⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲙ ⲡⲡⲉⲧϩⲏⲡ.
and pray to your father who is in that which is hidden

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲕⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧϭⲱϣⲧ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲙ ⲡⲡⲉⲧϩⲏⲡ ϥⲛⲁⲧⲱⲱⲃⲉ ⲛⲁⲕ.
and your father who sees you in that which is hidden he will repay you

ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲗⲏⲗ ⲇⲉ ⲙⲡⲣⲣ ϩⲁϩ ⲛ ϣⲁϫⲉ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲓϩⲉⲑⲛⲓⲕⲟⲥ ⲉⲩⲙⲉⲉⲩⲉ ⲅⲁⲣ ϫⲉ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲛ ⲧⲉⲩⲙⲛⲧϩⲁϩ ⲛ ϣⲁϫⲉ ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲉⲣⲟⲟⲩ.
and you all praying dont make many words in the manner of these gentiles for assuming that up in there numerousness of words they will be hear in them

ⲙⲡⲣⲉⲓⲛⲉ ϭⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲩ.
therefore dont be like them

ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲣⲭⲣⲉⲓⲁ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲙⲡⲁⲧⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲓⲧⲉⲓ ⲙⲙⲟϥ.
for god your father knows it your need you not yet requesting it 

ⲧⲁⲓ ϭⲉ ⲧⲉ ⲧϩⲉ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁϣⲗⲏⲗ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ.
therefore this is the manner you will pray it

ϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ ⲙⲁⲣⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲣⲁⲛ ⲟⲩⲟⲡ.
that our father who is in heaven may your name be holy

ⲧⲉⲕⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲙⲁⲣⲉⲥⲉⲓ ⲡⲉⲕⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲙⲁⲣⲉϥϣⲱⲡⲉ.
your kingdom may it come your will may it be

ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲉⲧ ⲉϥϩⲛ ⲧⲡⲉ ⲙⲁⲣⲉϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲟⲛ ϩⲓϫⲙ ⲡⲕⲁϩ.
in the manner which it is in the sky may it be also ontop of the earth

ⲡⲉⲛⲟⲉⲓⲕ ⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲛⲁⲛ ⲙ ⲡϩⲟⲟⲩ.
our bread which is comming give it to use today

ⲕⲱ ⲛⲁⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲉⲣⲟⲛ.
set away for us the things which are at our feet

ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ϩⲱⲱⲛ ⲟⲛ ⲉⲧⲉⲛⲕⲱ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲉⲟⲩⲛⲧⲁⲛ ⲉⲣⲟⲟⲩ.
in the manner we ourselves also that which we place away those thing which are to us at their feet

ⲛⲅⲧⲙϫⲓⲧⲛ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ ⲡⲉⲓⲣⲁⲥⲙⲟⲥ.
and take us not into temptation

ⲁⲗⲗⲁ ⲛⲅⲛⲁϩⲙⲉⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲙ ⲡⲡⲟⲛⲏⲣⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲧⲱⲕ ⲧⲉ ⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲟⲟⲩ ϣⲁ ⲛⲓⲉⲛⲉϩ ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ.
but rescue us from evil the evil one that yours is the power and the glory for these eternities amen (ⲛⲟⲩϩⲙ̅, ⲛⲁϩⲙ=, Q=ⲛⲁϩⲙ̅: to rescue, to save)

ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲁⲛⲕⲱ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲛⲟⲃⲉ ⲛϥⲛⲁⲕⲱ ϩⲱⲱϥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲛⲟⲃⲉ.
for if you will place away men of their sins he will place away himself for you namely your father who is in heaven 

ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲙⲕⲱ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲛⲟⲃⲉ ⲛϥⲛⲁⲕⲱ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲁⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙ ⲡⲏⲩⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲛⲟⲃⲉ.
but you not placing away the sins of men he does not place away yours your sins namely your father who is in heaven

ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲏⲥⲧⲉⲩⲉ ⲇⲉ ⲙⲡⲣϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲓϩⲩⲡⲟⲕⲣⲓⲧⲏⲥ ⲉⲩⲟⲕⲙ 
and when you fast dont be in the manner of the hypocrites they are gloomy (ⲱⲕⲙ̅, ⲉⲕⲙ̅-, Q=ⲟⲕⲙ̅: to be gloomy, to be sad)

ⲥⲉⲧⲁⲕⲟ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩϩⲟ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲩⲉⲟⲩⲱⲛϩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉⲩⲛⲏⲥⲧⲉⲩⲉ.
for they destroy their faces in order that they might appear from men fasting

ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩⲟⲩⲱ ⲉⲩϫⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲩⲃⲉⲕⲉ.
amen I say this to you that they finished receiving their wage

ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲕⲛⲏⲥⲧⲉⲩⲉ ⲧⲱϩⲥ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲕⲁⲡⲉ ⲛⲅⲉⲓⲱ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕϩⲟ.
but you when you are fasting  annoint your head and wash your face (ⲧⲱϩⲥ̅, ⲧⲉϩⲥ̅-, ⲧⲁϩⲥ=, Q=ⲧⲁϩⲥ̅: to annoint)

ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲛⲛⲉⲕⲟⲩⲱⲛϩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉⲕⲛⲏⲥⲧⲉⲩⲉ.
in order you will not be revealled in men fasting

ⲁⲗⲗⲁ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲙ ⲡⲡⲉⲧϩⲏⲡ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲕⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧϭⲱϣⲧ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲙ ⲡⲡⲉⲧϩⲏⲡ ϥⲛⲁⲧⲱⲱⲃⲉ ⲛⲁⲕ.
but you father who is in that which is hidden and your father who observes you in that which is hidden will repay you 

ⲙⲡⲣⲥⲱⲟⲩϩ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛ ϩⲛⲁϩⲟ ϩⲓϫⲙ ⲡⲕⲁϩ.
don't collect in for you some treasure on earth 

ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉϣⲁⲣⲉ ⲧϫⲟⲟⲗⲉⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲧϩⲟⲟⲗⲉ ⲧⲁⲕⲟⲛ ϩⲏⲧϥ.
the place the moth and the decay destroy it

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉϣⲁⲣⲉ ⲛⲣⲉϥϫⲓⲟⲩⲉ ϣⲟϫⲧ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛⲥⲉϫⲓⲟⲩⲉ.
and the place the thieves hollow out it and steal (ϣⲟⲧϣⲧ̅ [ϣⲟϫⲧ̅], ϣⲉⲧϣⲱⲧ-, Q=ϣⲉⲧϣⲱⲧ)

ⲥⲱⲟⲩϩ ⲇⲉ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛ ϩⲛⲁϩⲟ ϩⲛ ⲧⲡⲉ.
but collect in for you some treasures in the sky

ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲙⲉⲣⲉ ϫⲟⲟⲗⲉⲥ ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ϩⲟⲟⲗⲉ ⲧⲁⲕⲟⲛ ϩⲏⲧϥ.
the place which not moths nor decay destroy it

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲙⲉⲣⲉ ⲣⲉϥϫⲓⲟⲩⲉ ϭⲱⲧϩ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛⲥⲉϫⲓⲟⲩⲉ.
and the place which not thieves pierce it and steal (ϭⲱⲧϩ̅, ϭⲟⲧϩ=, Q=ϭⲟⲧϩ̅: to wound, to pierce)

ⲡⲙⲁ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲁϩⲟ ⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛ ϩⲏⲧϥ ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉⲕⲕⲉϩⲏⲧ.
for the place which your heart will be in it will it be there namely your heart 

ⲡϩⲏⲃⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲥⲱⲙⲁ ⲡⲉ ⲡⲃⲁⲗ.
the lamp of the body is the eye

ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲇⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲃⲁⲗ ⲟⲩϩⲁⲡⲗⲟⲩⲥ ⲡⲉ.
and if your eye is simple

ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲱⲙⲁ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ.
all your body will arise being in the state of light

ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲇⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲃⲁⲗ ⲟⲩⲡⲟⲛⲏⲣⲟⲥ ⲡⲉ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲱⲙⲁ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛ ⲕⲁⲕⲉ ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲡⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ ϭⲉ ⲧⲉⲧⲛϩⲏⲧⲕ ⲟⲩⲕⲁⲕⲉ ⲡⲉ ⲡⲕⲁⲕⲉ ⲟⲩⲏⲣ ⲡⲉ.
but if your eye is something wicked all of your body will arise being in darkness therefore if the light which is in you is a darkness how great is the darkness.

ⲙⲛϭⲟⲙ ⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲉ ⲣ ϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲛ ϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲏ ⲅⲁⲣ ϥⲛⲁⲙⲉⲥⲧⲉ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲛϥⲙⲉⲣⲉ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲏ ⲛϥϭⲟⲗϫϥ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲛ ϥⲕⲁⲧⲁⲫⲣⲟⲛⲉⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲕⲉⲟⲩⲁ ⲙⲛϭⲟⲙ ⲙⲙⲱⲧⲛ ⲉ ⲣ ϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲙ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲙⲁⲙⲱⲛⲁⲥ.
it is not possible for anyone to do service lords two for either he will hate one and love one or adhere to/become entangled the one and despise the other one of them there is not power to you to do the service god and mamon
ⲛϥϭⲟⲗϫϥ = entangled "nf=wjf="


ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲙⲡⲣϥⲓ ⲣⲟⲟⲩϣ ⲉ ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲯⲩⲭⲏ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲟⲩⲟⲙϥ ⲏ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲥⲟⲟϥ ⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲥⲱⲙⲁ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲧⲁⲁϥ ϩⲓⲱⲧ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲙⲏ ⲧⲉⲯⲩⲭⲏ ⲟⲩⲟⲟⲧ ⲁⲛ ⲉ ⲧⲉϩⲣⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲥⲱⲙⲁ ⲉⲧϩⲃⲥⲱ.
that is, I say this to you that dont bear worry for you life that what is that which you will eat or what is that which you will drink nor your bodies that what is that which you will give it onto yourselves does not life surpass food and the body clothes.
ⲟⲩⲟⲟⲧ = Q = surpass non Q = change, pass into

ϭⲱϣⲧ ⲉ ⲛϩⲁⲗⲁⲧⲉ ⲛ ⲧⲡⲉ ϫⲉ ⲉⲥⲉϫⲟ ⲁⲛ ⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲱϩⲥ ⲁⲛ ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ⲛ ⲥⲉⲥⲱⲟⲩϩ ⲁⲛ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ ⲁⲡⲟⲑⲏⲕⲏ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ ⲥⲁⲛϣ ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ϭⲉ ⲛ ϩⲟⲩⲟ ⲙⲏ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲟⲃⲉ ⲁⲛ ⲉⲣⲟⲟⲩ.
look to the birds in the sky that they do not plant nor do they reap nor do they gather in to the store house and you father who is in heaven takes care of them therefore do you not more differ from them.

ⲛⲓⲙ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲉϥϥⲓ ⲣⲟⲟⲩϣ ⲉⲩⲛ ϭⲟⲙ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉ ⲟⲩⲉϩ ⲟⲩⲙⲁϩⲉ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲛ ⲧⲉϥϣⲓⲏ.
and who among you all bearing worry there is being power to him to place a cubit up onto his height

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁϩⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲧⲉⲧⲛϥⲓ ⲣⲟⲟⲩϣ ϩⲁ ⲧϩⲃⲥⲱ ϭⲱϣⲧ ⲉ ⲛⲉⲕⲣⲓⲛⲟⲛ ⲛ ⲧⲥⲱϣⲉ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲉⲧ ⲟⲩⲁⲩⲝⲁⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲛⲥⲉϩⲓⲥⲉ ⲁⲛ ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲣ ⲉⲓⲟⲡⲉ ⲁⲛ.
and why you bear worry under the clothes look to the lillies of the field the manner which they increase it that they toil not nor do they make craft.

ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ⲥⲟⲗⲟⲙⲱⲛ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉϥⲉⲟⲟⲩ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲙⲡⲉϥϯ ϩⲓⲱⲱϥ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲛ ⲛⲁⲓ.
I say this to you all that neither Solomon in all his glory did not dress in the way of one of these

ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲭⲟⲣⲧⲟⲥ ⲛ ⲧⲥⲱϣⲉ ⲉϥϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲙ ⲡϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲣⲁⲥⲧⲉ ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲛⲟϫϥ ⲉ ⲧⲉⲧⲣⲓⲣ.
if the grass of the field being today tomorrow will be cast into the fire

ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ϯϩⲓⲱⲱϥ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲓϩⲉ.
the god dresses in this way

ⲡⲟⲥⲟ ⲙⲁⲗⲗⲟⲛ ϩⲓⲱⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲛⲁ ⲧⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲓⲥⲧⲓⲥ.
how much more upon you will (he) oh you of little faith 
(ⲛⲁ ⲧⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲓⲥⲧⲓⲥ = those having to do with little faith) 

ⲙⲡⲣϥⲓ ⲣⲟⲟⲩϣ ϭⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁⲟⲩⲟⲙϥ.
don't bear worry therefore you all saying that what is that you all will eat 

ⲏ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁⲥⲟⲟϥ.
or what is that which you all will drink

ⲏ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲧⲁⲁϥ ϩⲓⲱⲧ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ.
or what is that which you all will wear 

ⲛⲁⲓ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲛϩⲉⲑⲛⲟⲥ ⲛ ⲉⲧϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲥⲱⲟⲩ.
for all of these things the gentiles are those who seek them 

ϥⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ ϫⲉ ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲣ ⲭⲣⲉⲓⲁ ⲛ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ.
for he knows namely your father who is in heaven that you need all of these things

ϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲇⲉ ⲛ ϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲧⲉϥⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲉϥⲇⲓⲕⲁⲓⲟⲥⲩⲛⲏ.
but seek firstly after his kingdom and his righteousness

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲟⲩⲁϩⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ.
and all these things they will be added to you

ⲙⲡⲣϥⲓ ⲣⲟⲟⲩϣ ϭⲉ ⲉ ⲡⲉϥⲣⲁⲥⲧⲉ.
dont bear worry therefore for its dawning

ⲣⲁⲥⲧⲉ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛⲁϥⲓ ⲣⲟⲟⲩϣ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ.
for tomorrow will bear worry under itself

ϩⲱ ⲉ ⲡⲉϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲡⲉϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲉ ⲧⲉϥⲕⲁⲕⲓⲁ.
it (worry) is sufficient for each day with respect to its wickedness.