ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ⲥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲥⲧⲛⲧⲱⲛ ⲛϭⲓ ⲧⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ ⲉ ⲙⲏⲧⲉ ⲙⲡⲁⲣⲑⲉⲛⲟⲥ.
then it will come about being like namely the kingdom of the heavens to ten virgens

ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲩϫⲓ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲗⲁⲙⲡⲁⲥ ⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲧⲱⲙⲛⲧ ⲉ ⲡⲁⲧϣⲉⲗⲉⲉⲧ.
whom they took their lamps they came out to meet the bride groom

ϯ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ ⲛⲉ ϩⲉⲛⲥⲟϭ ⲛⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ϯ ⲛⲉ ϩⲉⲛⲥⲁⲃⲏⲩ.
and five of them were some fools and five were being some fools (ⲛⲉ ....... ⲛⲉ: first one is imperfect converter)

ⲛⲥⲟϭ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲁⲩϫⲓ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲗⲁⲙⲡⲁⲥ ⲙⲡⲟⲩϫⲓ ⲛⲉϩ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲩ.
for the foolish they brought their lamps not bringing oil with them

ⲛⲥⲁⲃⲏ ⲇⲉ ⲁⲩϫⲓ ⲛⲉϩ ϩⲛ ⲛⲉⲩϩⲛⲁⲁⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲗⲁⲙⲡⲁⲥ.
and the wise they brought oil in their vessels with their lamps

ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲉϥⲱⲥⲕ ⲇⲉ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲁⲧϣⲉⲗⲉⲉⲧ ⲁⲩϫⲓ-ⲣⲉⲕⲣⲓⲕⲉ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲩⲛⲕⲟⲧⲕ.
and when he delayed namely the bridegroom they all took nooding and they slept 

ϩⲛ ⲧⲡⲁϣⲉ ⲇⲉ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲩϣⲏ ⲉⲓⲥ ⲟⲩⲥⲙⲏ ⲁⲥϣⲱⲡⲉ ϫⲉ ⲉⲓⲥ ⲡⲁⲧϣⲉⲗⲉⲉⲧ. 
and in the half of the night behold a voice it said that behold my bridegroom 

ⲁⲙⲏⲉⲓⲧⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲧⲱⲙⲛⲧ ⲉⲣⲟϥ.
come out to meet him

ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ⲁⲩⲧⲱⲟⲩⲛ ⲛϭⲓ ⲙⲡⲁⲣⲑⲉⲛⲟⲥ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲁⲩⲧⲥⲁⲛⲟ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲗⲁⲙⲡⲁⲥ.
then they rose up namely all of thos virgens they set in order their lamps (ⲧⲥⲁⲛⲟ: to set in order)

ⲛⲥⲟϭ ⲇⲉ ⲡⲉϫⲁⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲥⲁⲃⲏ ϫⲉ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲁⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲛⲉϩ.
and the foolsih said to the wise that give to us from your oil

ϫⲉ ⲛⲉⲛⲗⲁⲙⲡⲁⲥ ⲛⲁϫⲉⲛⲁ.
that our lamps will extinguish (ϫⲉⲛⲁ: to beat to cause, to extinguish)

ⲁⲩⲟⲩⲱϣⲃ ⲇⲉ ⲛϭⲓ ⲛⲥⲁⲃⲏ ⲉⲩϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲙⲏⲡⲟⲧⲉ ⲛϥⲧⲙⲣⲱϣⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ. 
and they answered namely the wise saying this that lest ever it is not sufficient for us and you all 

ⲃⲱⲕ ⲛⲧⲟϥ ⲛ ⲛⲁϩⲣⲛ ⲛⲉⲧϯ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲱⲡ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ.
go therefore before us to those who sell and you all buy for yourselves

ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲃⲱⲕ ⲇⲉ ⲉϣⲱⲡ ⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲁⲧϣⲉⲗⲉⲉⲧ.
and they being about to go to buy he came namely the bridegroom

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲉⲧⲥⲃⲧⲱⲧ ⲁⲩⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲙⲙⲁϥ ⲉ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲛ ϣⲉⲗⲉⲉⲧ ⲁⲩϣⲧⲁⲙ ⲙⲡⲣⲟ.
and those who were ready they went in with him to the place of the bridegroom the door was shut

ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲇⲉ ⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲕⲉⲥⲉⲉⲡⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲁⲣⲑⲉⲛⲟⲥ ⲉⲩϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲁⲟⲩⲱⲛ ⲛⲁⲛ.
and afterwards they came namely the rest of the virgins saying this that lord lord open to us

ⲛⲧⲟϥ ⲇⲉ ⲁϥⲟⲩⲱϣⲃ ⲉϥϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲛϯⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲙⲱⲧⲛ ⲁⲛ.
and he answered saying this that amen I say this to you all that I do not know you

ⲣⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϭⲉ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ ⲁⲛ ⲙ ⲡⲉϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲧⲉⲩⲛⲟⲩ.
therefore watch because you do not know the hour or the time

ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϥⲛⲁⲁⲡⲟⲇⲏⲙⲉⲓ.
for in the manner of a man about to go abroad

ⲁϥⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉ ⲛⲉϥϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲁϥϯ ⲛⲁⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲉϥϩⲩⲡⲁⲣⲭⲟⲛⲧⲁ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ.
he called his servants he gave them all his property 

ⲟⲩⲁ ⲙⲉⲛ ⲁϥϯ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛ ϯⲟⲩ ⲛ ϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ.
while one he gave to him five talents  

ⲟⲩⲁ ⲇⲉ ⲁϥϯ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲇⲉ ⲁϥϯ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲕⲁⲧⲁ ⲧⲉϥϭⲟⲙ ⲁϥⲁⲡⲟⲇⲏⲙⲉⲓ.
and one he gave to him two and one he gave to him one each one according to his ability, he went abroad

ⲛ ⲧⲉⲩⲛⲟⲩ ⲇⲉ ⲁϥⲃⲱⲕ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϫⲓ ⲙ ⲡϯⲟⲩ ⲛ ϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ ⲁϥⲣ-ϩⲱⲃ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ ⲁϥϯϩⲏⲩ ⲛ ⲕⲉϯⲟⲩ.
and immediately he went namely he who took the five talents he did labor in them he gave profit of another five

ϩⲟⲙⲟⲓⲱⲥ ⲟⲛ ⲡⲁⲡⲉⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲁϥϯϩⲏⲩ ⲛ ⲕⲉⲥⲛⲁⲩ.
similarly again he of the two he profited another two

ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϫⲓ ⲇⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲁϥⲃⲱⲕ ⲁϥϣⲓⲕⲉ ϩⲙ ⲡⲕⲁϩ ⲁϥⲧⲱⲙⲥ ⲙ ⲡϩⲁⲧ ⲙ ⲡⲉϥϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ.
but he who he received the one he went he dug in the ground he burried the silver of his master (ϣⲓⲕⲉ, ϣⲉⲕⲧ-, ϣⲁⲕⲧ=, Q=ϣⲟⲕⲉ: to dig; ⲧⲱⲙⲥ̅, ⲧⲙ̅ⲥ-, ⲧⲟⲙⲥ=, Q=ⲧⲟⲙⲥ̅: to burry)

ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ ⲟⲩⲛⲟϭ ⲇⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛ ⲛϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲁϥϥⲓⲱⲡ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲩ.
and after a lot of time he came namely the lord of those servants he bore count with them

ⲁϥϯ ⲡⲉϥⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϫⲓ ⲙ ⲡϯⲟⲩ ⲛ ϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ.
he gave his rush to him namely he who he received the five talents   

ⲁϥⲉⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛⲕⲉϯⲟⲩ ⲛ ϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ ⲉϥϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϯⲟⲩ ⲛ ϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ ⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲕⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ⲁⲓϯϩⲏⲩ ⲛⲕⲉϯⲟⲩ.
he brought to him the other five talents say this that lord five talents is that which you gave them to me behold I give profet of another five

ⲡⲉϫⲁϥ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉϥϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϫⲉ ⲕⲁⲗⲱⲥ ⲡϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲙ ⲡⲓⲥⲧⲟⲥ.
he said to him namely his lord that well the servant who is good and faithful

ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲇⲏ ⲁⲕϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲕⲛϩⲟⲧ ⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲕⲟⲩⲓ ϯⲛⲁⲕⲁⲑⲓⲥⲧⲁ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲉϫⲛ ϩⲁϩ.
since you came about being faithful in some small things I will set you up on many things (ⲛⲁϩⲧⲉ, Q=ⲛ̅ϩⲟⲧ: to be trustworthy)

ⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ ⲡⲣⲁϣⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ.
go into the joy of your lord

ⲁϥϯⲡⲉϥⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓ ϩⲱⲱϥ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϫⲓ ⲙ ⲡϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲉϥϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲕⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ⲁⲓϯϩⲏⲩ ⲛⲕⲉⲥⲛⲁⲩ.
he gave his rush himself to him namely he who received the two talents saying this that lord two talents are those that you gave then to me behold I give profit of another two

ⲡⲉϫⲁϥ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉϥϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϫⲉ ⲕⲁⲗⲱⲥ ⲡϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲙⲡⲓⲥⲧⲟⲥ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲇⲏ ⲁⲕϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲕⲛϩⲟⲧ ⲉ ϩⲉⲛⲕⲟⲩⲓ ϯⲛⲁⲕⲁⲑⲓⲥⲧⲁ ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲉϫⲛ ϩⲁϩ.
he said to him namely his lord that well servant who is good and trust worthy since you came about being trustworthy for some small things I will set you up on many things

ⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ ⲡⲣⲁϣⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ.
go into the joy of your lord

ⲁϥϯ-ⲡⲉϥⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϫⲓ ⲙ ⲡϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ ⲉϥϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲁⲓⲉⲓⲙⲉ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲕ ⲟⲩⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛ ⲥⲕⲗⲏⲣⲟⲥ ⲉⲕⲱϩⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲙⲡⲕϫⲟϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲕⲥⲱⲟⲩϩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲙⲡⲕϫⲱⲱⲣⲉ ⲉⲣⲟϥ.
he gave his rush to him namely he who received the talent saying this that my lord I know that you are a rough man you reap in the place were not you sow and you gather in the place which not you scattered at its feet

ⲁⲓⲣϩⲟⲧⲉ ⲁⲓⲃⲱⲕ ⲁⲓϩⲱⲡ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ ϩⲙ ⲡⲕⲁϩ.
I made fear I went I hide your talent in the ground

ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ⲉⲓⲥ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲡⲱⲕ ⲡⲉ.
behold that which yours it is

ⲁϥⲟⲩⲱϣⲃ ⲇⲉ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲉϥϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉϥϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲁϥ ϫⲉ ⲡϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲙ ⲡⲟⲛⲏⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲣⲉϥϫⲛⲁⲁⲩ.
and he answered namely his lord saying this to him that wicked servant and lazy (ϫⲛⲁⲩ: to be lazy)

ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲕⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ ϫⲉ ϯⲱϩⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲙⲡⲓϫⲟϥ.
if you knew that I reap in the place which I do not sew

ⲁⲩⲱ ϯⲥⲱⲟⲩϩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲙⲡⲓϫⲱⲱⲣⲉ ⲉⲣⲟϥ.
and I gather back inside in the place which I do not scatter it

ⲛⲉ ϣϣⲉ ϭⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲡⲉ ⲉ ⲛⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲁϩⲁⲧ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲣⲁⲡⲉⲍⲉⲓⲧⲏⲥ.
therefore it was proper for you it is to cast my silver into the bankers

ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ⲛⲉⲓⲛⲁⲉⲓ ⲛⲧⲁϫⲓ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲡⲱⲓ ⲡⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲉϥⲙⲏⲥⲉ.
and I having come I will take that which is mine with its interest

ϥⲓ ϭⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲧϥ ⲙ ⲡϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲩⲛⲧⲁϥ ⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲙ ⲡⲙⲏⲧ ⲛ ϭⲓⲛϭⲱⲣ.
therefore carry from him the talent and you all give it to he who there is to him ten talents

ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉⲩⲛⲧⲁϥ ⲥⲉⲛⲁϯ ⲛⲁϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥⲣϩⲟⲩⲟ.
for everyone who there is to him they will give to him and he will excel

ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲙⲙⲛⲧⲁϥ ⲇⲉ ⲡⲕⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲛⲧⲁϥ ⲥⲉⲛⲁϥⲓⲧϥ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲧϥ.
but he who there is not to him the other which there is to him they will take it from his hands

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲛ ⲁⲧϣⲁⲩ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉ ⲡⲕⲁⲕⲉ ⲉⲧϩⲓⲃⲟⲗ ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲣⲓⲙⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡϭⲁϩϭϩ ⲛⲛⲟⲃϩⲉ.
and the servant the useless you all will cast him out to the darkness which is outside it will arise there namely weeping and nashing of teeth (ϣⲁⲩ)

ϩⲟⲧⲁⲛ ⲇⲉ ⲉϥϣⲁⲛⲉⲓ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉϥⲉⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥⲁⲅⲅⲉⲗⲟⲥ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲛⲙⲙⲁϥ.
and whenever he comes namely the son of the man down in his glory and all his angels with him

ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ϥⲛⲁϩⲙⲟⲟⲥ ⲉϫⲙ ⲡⲉⲑⲣⲟⲛⲟⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲉϥⲉⲟⲟⲩ.
then he will sit on his throne of glory

ⲛⲥⲉⲥⲱⲟⲩϩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲡⲉϥⲙⲧⲟ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛϩⲉⲑⲛⲟⲥ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲛϥⲡⲱⲣϫ ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩϣⲱⲥ ⲉϣⲁϥⲡⲱⲣϫ ⲛⲉⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛ ⲛⲃⲁⲁⲙⲡⲉ.
they will be gathered before him all the nations and he will seperate them from each other in the manner of a sheppard who he seperates the sheep from the goats

ⲛⲉⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲉⲛ ⲛϥⲧⲁϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲁⲧⲟⲩ ϩⲓ ⲟⲩⲛⲁⲙ ⲙⲙⲟϥ.
the sheep while he will set them on their feet on the right of him

ⲛⲃⲁⲁⲙⲡⲉ ⲇⲉ ϩⲓ ϩⲃⲟⲩⲣ ⲙⲙⲟϥ.
and the goats on the left of him

ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ⲛⲁϫⲟⲟⲥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲣⲣⲟ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧϩⲓ ⲟⲩⲛⲁⲙ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲁⲙⲏⲉⲓⲧⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲥⲙⲁⲙⲁⲁⲧ ⲛⲧⲉ ⲡⲁⲉⲓⲱⲧ.
the will say namely the king to those on left of him that come those who are blessed of my father

ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲕⲗⲏⲣⲟⲛⲟⲙⲉⲓ ⲛ ⲧⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲉⲛⲧⲁⲩⲥⲃⲧⲱⲧⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲕⲁⲧⲁⲃⲟⲗⲏ ⲙ ⲡⲕⲟⲥⲙⲟⲥ.
you inherit the kingdom which they prepared for you since the foundation of the world

ⲁⲓϩⲕⲟ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲙⲟⲓ.
for I was hungery you all fed me. (ⲧⲙ̅ⲙⲟ, ⲧⲙⲉ-, ⲧⲙⲟ=, Q=ⲧⲙ̅ⲙⲏⲩ: to feed)

ⲁⲓⲉⲓⲃⲉ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲥⲟⲓ.
I thirsted you all gave me drink (ⲉⲓⲃⲉ, Q=ⲟⲃⲉ: to thirst, ⲧⲥⲟ, ⲧⲥⲉ-, ⲧⲥⲟ=, Q=ⲧⲥⲏⲩ: to cause to drink )

ⲛⲉⲓⲟ ⲛ ϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲡⲉ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲟⲡⲧ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ.
I was being a stranger you accepted my to you all ()

ⲛⲉⲓⲕⲏ ⲕⲁϩⲏⲩ ⲡⲉ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛϯ ϩⲓⲱⲱⲧ.
I was left naked you all dressed me

ⲛⲉⲓϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲡⲉ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛϭⲙ-ⲡⲁϣⲓⲛⲉ.
I was sick you all visited me (ϭⲓⲛⲉ ⲙ̅ⲡϣⲓⲛⲉ [ϭⲙ̅-ⲡ=ϣⲓⲛⲉ]: to visit, lit. to receive the news)

ⲛⲉⲓϩⲙ ⲡⲉϣⲧⲉⲕⲟ ⲡⲉ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓ ϣⲁⲣⲟⲓ.
I was in prison you all came to me

ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣⲃ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲛⲇⲓⲕⲁⲓⲟⲥ ⲉⲩϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲧⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲕϩⲕⲁⲉⲓⲧ ⲁⲛⲧⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲏ ⲉⲕⲟⲃⲉ ⲁⲛⲧⲥⲟⲕ.
then they will answer him namely the righteous saying this that lord when is it that we saw you hungering we fed you or you thirsting we caused you to drink

ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲛⲁⲩ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲧⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲕⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲁⲛϣⲟⲡⲕ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ⲏ ⲉⲕⲕⲏ ⲕⲁϩⲏⲩ ⲁⲛϯ ϩⲓⲱⲱⲕ.
but when is it that we saw you being a stranger we received you to us or you being left naked we dressed you

ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲛⲁⲩ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲧⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲕϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲏ ⲉⲕϩⲙ ⲡⲉϣⲧⲉⲕⲟ ⲁⲛⲉⲓ ϣⲁⲣⲟⲕ.
and when was it that we saw you you being sick or you being in prison we came to you

ϥⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣⲃ ⲇⲉ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡⲣⲣⲟ ⲛϥϫⲟⲟⲥ ⲛⲁⲩ ϫⲉ ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ.
and he will answer namely the king saying to them that amen I say this to you all

ϫⲉ ⲉ ⲡϩⲟⲥⲟⲛ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲁⲥ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲓ ⲥⲛⲏⲩ ⲉⲧⲥⲟⲃⲕ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲁⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ.
that to as long you will do it to one of  these brothers which are chosen I it is who you will do it to me

ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ϥⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣⲃ ⲛϥϫⲟⲟⲥ ⲛ ⲛⲕⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲉⲧϩⲓ ϩⲃⲟⲩⲣ ⲙⲙⲟϥ.
then he will answer saying to the others who are on the left of him

ϫⲉ ⲥⲁϩⲉⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲛⲉⲧⲥϩⲟⲩⲟⲣⲧ ⲉ ⲧⲥⲁⲧⲉ ⲛ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲧⲁⲓ ⲉⲛⲧⲁⲩⲥⲃⲧⲱⲧⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲇⲓⲁⲃⲟⲗⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥⲁⲅⲅⲉⲗⲟⲥ.
that withdraw yourself from me who are cursed  to the eternal fire this which is prepared for the devil and his angels (ⲥⲟϩⲉ, ⲥⲁϩⲉ-, ⲥⲁϩⲱ=, Q=ⲥⲁϩⲏⲩ (ⲉⲃⲟⲗ): to remove, to withdraw oneself from; ⲥⲁϩⲟⲩ [ⲥⲁϩⲟⲩⲉ], ⲥϩ̅ⲟⲩⲣ̅-, ⲥϩ̅ⲟⲩⲱⲣ=, Q=ⲥϩ̅ⲟⲩⲟⲣⲧ̅: to curs; f. ⲥⲁⲧⲉ [ⲥⲁⲁⲧⲉ] [ⲥⲟⲧⲉ])

ⲁⲓϩⲕⲟ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛⲧⲙⲙⲟⲓ.
for I was hungery while not you were feeding me

ⲁⲓⲉⲓⲃⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛⲧⲥⲟⲓ.
I thirsted while not you were giving me drink

ⲛⲉⲓⲟ ⲛ ϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲡⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛϣⲟⲡⲧ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ.
I was a stranger not you received me to you all I was 

ⲛⲉⲓⲕⲏ ⲕⲁϩⲏⲩ ⲡⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛϯ ϩⲓⲱⲱⲧ.
I was left naked not you dressed me 

ⲛⲉⲓϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲡⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲓϩⲙ ⲡⲉϣⲧⲉⲕⲟ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛϭⲙⲡⲁϣⲓⲛⲉ.
I was sick and I was in prison not you visited me

ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣⲃ ϩⲱⲟⲩ ⲟⲛ ⲉⲩϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ.
then they will answer themselves again saying this

ϫⲉ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲧⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲕϩⲕⲁⲉⲓⲧ ⲏ ⲉⲕⲟⲃⲉ ⲏ ⲉⲕⲟ ⲛ ϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲏ ⲉⲕⲕⲏ ⲕⲁϩⲏⲩ ⲏ ⲉⲕϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲏ ⲉⲕϩⲙ ⲡⲉϣⲧⲉⲕⲟ ⲙⲡⲛⲇⲓⲁⲕⲟⲛⲉⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ.
that lord when was it that we saw you being hungery or thirsting or being a stranger or being left naked or being sick or being in prison not we were ministering to you

ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ϥⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣⲃ ⲛⲁⲩ ⲉϥϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ϩⲁⲙⲏⲛ ϯϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲉ ⲉ ⲡϩⲟⲥⲟⲛ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲁⲥ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲓ ⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲁⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ.
then he will answer to them saying this that amen I say this to you that for as much not you do it to one of these small ones I it is who not you will do it to me

ⲛⲁⲓ ⲙⲉⲛ ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲃⲱⲕ ⲉⲩⲕⲟⲗⲁⲥⲓⲥ ⲛ ϣⲁⲉⲛⲉϩ, ⲛⲇⲓⲕⲁⲓⲟⲥ ⲇⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲩⲱⲛϩ ⲛϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ.
while these will go to an eternal punishment, the righteous rather to an eternal life