πέτραν παρ’ αὐτὴν Παλλάδος, κατόψιον Beside the rock of Pallas, overlooking
γῆς τῆσδε, ναὸν Κύπριδος ἐγκαθίσατο, this land, she established a temple of Kypris,
ἐρῶσ’ ἔρωτ’ ἔκδημον· burning with love’s foreign passion;
Ἱππολύτῳ δ’ ἔπι τὸ λοιπὸν  - and she declared that henceforth the goddess
ὠνόμαζ’ ἐνιδρῦσθαι θεάν.  - should be installed in honor of Hippolytus.
ἐπεὶ δὲ Θησεὺς Κεκροπίαν λείπει χθόνα,  - When Theseus left the land of Cecrops,
μίασμα φεύγων αἵματος Παλλαντιδῶν,  -  fleeing the blood-guilt of the Pallantides,
καὶ τήνδε σὺν δάμαρτι ναυστολεῖ χθόνα,  - and sailed to this land with his wife,
ἐνιαυσίαν ἔκδημον αἰνέσας φυγήν,  - having agreed to a year-long exile,
ἐνταῦθα δὴ στένουσα κἀκπεπληγμένη - here, grieving and struck with
κέντροις ἔρωτος ἡ τάλαιν’ ἀπόλλυται - the stings of love, the wretched one perishes
σιγῇ· ξύνοιδε δ’ οὔτις οἰκετῶν νόσον. - in silence; none of the servants know her illness.
ἀλλ’ οὔτι ταύτῃ τόνδ’ ἔρωτα χρὴ πεσεῖν· - But love must not fall in this way;
δείξω δὲ Θησεῖ πρᾶγμα, κἀκφανήσεται. - I will show Theseus the matter, and it shall be revealed.
καὶ τὸν μὲν ἡμῖν πολέμιον νεανίαν - And the enemy youth shall be slain by his father’s curse,
κτενεῖ πατὴρ ἀραῖσιν, ἃς ὁ πόντιος - which Poseidon, lord of the sea, granted to Theseus
ἄναξ Ποσειδῶν ὤπασεν Θησεῖ γέρας, - as a gift, to call upon the god thrice without fail.
μηδὲν μάταιον ἐς τρὶς εὔξασθαι θεῷ. - And she, though noble, yet shall perish,
ἣ δ’ εὐκλεὴς μέν, ἀλλ’ ὅμως ἀπόλλυται, - Phaedra—for I will not put her suffering above my own
Φαίδρα· τὸ γὰρ τῆσδ’ οὐ προτιμήσω κακὸν - in making my enemies pay such a price that it pleases me well.
τὸ μὴ οὐ παρασχεῖν – the not not to grant
τοὺς ἐμοὺς ἐχθροὺς – my enemies
ἐμοὶ δίκην – to me justice
τοσαύτην ὥστ’ – so great that
ἐμοὶ καλῶς ἔχειν. – to me it is well.
ἀλλ’, – But,
εἰσορῶ γὰρ – for I see
τόνδε παῖδα Θησέως – this son of Theseus
στείχοντα, – coming,
θήρας μόχθον ἐκλελοιπότα, – having left behind the toil of the hunt,
Ἱππόλυτον, – Hippolytus,
ἔξω τῶνδε βήσομαι τόπων. – outside of these places I will go.
πολὺς δ’ ἅμ’ αὐτῷ – and many with him
προσπόλων ὀπισθόπους – attendants following behind
κῶμος λέλακεν, – a chorus has cried out,
Ἄρτεμιν τιμῶν – honoring Artemis
θεὰν ὕμνοισιν· – the goddess with hymns;
οὐ γὰρ οἶδ’ – for he does not know
ἀνεῳγμένας πύλας Ἅιδου, – the opened gates of Hades,
φάος δὲ λοίσθιον βλέπων τόδε. – but seeing this last light.
Ἱππόλυτος (Hippolytus)
ἕπεσθ’ ἀείδοντες, – Follow, singing,
ἕπεσθε τὰν Διὸς οὐρανίαν Ἄρτεμιν, – follow the heavenly Artemis of Zeus,
ᾇ μελόμεσθα. – whom we honor. 
Χορός Κυνηγῶν (Chorus of Hunters)
πότνια πότνια – Lady, Lady,
σεμνοτάτα, Ζανὸς γένεθλον, – most revered, child of Zeus,
χαῖρε, χαῖρέ μοι, – rejoice, rejoice for me,
ὦ κόρα Λατοῦς Ἄρτεμι καὶ Διός, – O maiden Artemis, daughter of Leto and Zeus,
καλλίστα πολὺ παρθένων, – fairest by far of maidens,
ἃ μέγαν κατ’ οὐρανὸν – who throughout the great sky
ναίεις εὐπατέρειαν αὐλάν, – dwell in your noble father’s halls,
Ζηνὸς πολύχρυσον οἶκον. – the richly golden house of Zeus.
χαῖρέ μοι, – Rejoice for me,
ὦ καλλίστα καλλίστα – O fairest, fairest
τῶν κατ’ Ὄλυμπον παρθένων, – of the maidens on Olympus,
Ἄρτεμι. – Artemis.
Ἱππόλυτος (Hippolytus)
σοὶ τόνδε πλεκτὸν στέφανον – To you, this woven crown
ἐξ ἀκηράτου λειμῶνος, – from an untouched meadow,
ὦ δέσποινα, κοσμήσας φέρω, – O lady, adorned, I bring,
ἔνθ’ οὔτε ποιμὴν ἀξιοῖ φέρβειν βοτὰ – where neither shepherd dares to graze flocks
οὔτ’ ἦλθέ πω σίδαρος, – nor has iron ever come,
ἀλλ’ ἀκήρατον μέλισσα λειμῶν’ ἠρινὴ διέρχεται, – but a chaste springtime bee passes through the meadow,
Αἰδὼς δὲ ποταμίαισι κηπεύει δρόσοις· – and Modesty nurtures it with river dew.
ὅσοις διδακτὸν μηδέν, – For those to whom nothing is taught,
ἀλλ’ ἐν τῇ φύσει τὸ σωφρονεῖν εἴληχεν – but have received temperance by nature,
ἐς τὰ πάνθ’ ὁμῶς, – in all things alike,
τούτοις δρέπεσθαι, – to these it is permitted to pluck,
τοῖς κακοῖσι δ’ οὐ θέμις. – but to the wicked, it is not lawful.
ἀλλ’, ὦ φίλη δέσποινα, – But, O dear lady,
χρυσέας κόμης ἀνάδημα δέξαι – accept this headband for your golden hair
χειρὸς εὐσεβοῦς ἄπο. – from a pious hand. 
ἐμοὶ γάρ μόνον τοῦτο ἐστι τὸ γέρας βροτῶν· 
καὶ ξύνειμι τὲ σοὶ ἀμείβομαι τὲ λόγοις
ἀκούων μὲν τὴν φωνήν σου οὐχ ὁρῶν δὲ τοὺς ὀφθαλμούς σου.
τέλος δὲ λαμβάνοιμι ὥσπερ ἠρξάμην βίου.
Θεράπων 
κύριε, θεοὺς γὰρ δεσπότας καλεῖν πρέπει 
ἆρα τί δέξαιο ἄν μου συμβουλεύσαντος καλῶς; 
Ἱππόλυτος
καὶ κάρτα γ’· – Indeed, very much so;
ἦ γὰρ οὐ σοφοὶ φαινοίμεθ’ ἄν. – for otherwise, we would not seem wise.
Θεράπων
οἶσθ’ οὖν βροτοῖσιν ὃς καθέστηκεν νόμος; – Do you know the law that stands among mortals?
Ἱππόλυτος
οὐκ οἶδα· – I do not know;
τοῦ δὲ καί μ’ ἀνιστορεῖς πέρι; – and why do you ask me about it?
Θεράπων
μισεῖν τὸ σεμνὸν – To hate the solemn
καὶ τὸ μὴ πᾶσιν φίλον. – and what is not dear to all.
Ἱππόλυτος
ὀρθῶς γε· – Rightly so; 
τίς δ’ οὐ σεμνὸς ἀχθεινὸς βροτῶν; – for who among mortals is not burdened by the solemn?
Θεράπων
ἐν δ’ εὐπροσηγόροισιν ἔστι τις χάρις; – But is there some grace in those who are easy in speech?
Ἱππόλυτος
πλείστη γε, – Very much, 
καὶ κέρδος γε σὺν μόχθῳ βραχεῖ. – and also profit with little toil.
Θεράπων
ἦ κἀν θεοῖσι ταὐτὸν ἐλπίζεις τόδε; – Do you expect the same among the gods?
Ἱππόλυτος
εἴπερ γε θνητοὶ – If indeed mortals 
θεῶν νόμοισι χρώμεθα. – use the laws of the gods.
Θεράπων
πῶς οὖν σὺ σεμνός, – How then are you solemn,
δαίμον’ οὐ προσεννέπων; – yet do not address a deity?
Ἱππόλυτος
τίν’; – Which one?
εὐλαβοῦ δὲ μή τί σου σφαλῇ στόμα. – Be careful lest your mouth slip.
Θεράπων
τήνδ’, – This one,
ἣ πύλαισι σαῖς ἐφέστηκεν Κύπρις. – Cypris, who stands before your gates.
Ἱππόλυτος
πρόσωθεν αὐτὴν – From afar, I
ἁγνὸς ὢν ἀσπάζομαι. – being pure, greet her.
Θεράπων
σεμνός γε μέντοι – Yet you are solemn
κἀπίσημος ἐν βροτοῖς. – and distinguished among mortals.
Ἱππόλυτος
ἄλλοισιν ἄλλος – Each one concerns
θεῶν τε κἀνθρώπων μέλει. – different gods and men.
Θεράπων
εὐδαιμονοίης – May you be fortunate,
νοῦν ἔχων ὅσον σε δεῖ. – having as much wisdom as you need.
Ἱππόλυτος
οὐδείς μ’ ἀρέσκει – No god pleases me
νυκτὶ θαυμαστὸς θεῶν. – who is wondrous at night.
Θεράπων
τιμαῖσιν, ὦ παῖ, – With honors, O child,
δαιμόνων χρῆσθαι χρεών. – one must deal with the gods.
Ἱππόλυτος
χωρεῖτ’, ὀπαδοί, – Go, attendants,
καὶ παρελθόντες δόμους – and passing into the house,
σίτων μέλεσθε· – take care of the food;
τερπνὸν ἐκ κυναγίας τράπεζα πλήρης· – the pleasue of the hunt is a full table.
καὶ καταψήχειν χρεὼν ἵππους, – And it is necessary to groom the horses,
ὅπως ἂν ἅρμασιν ζεύξας ὕπο – so that, having yoked them to the chariot,
βορᾶς κορεσθεὶς γυμνάσω τὰ πρόσφορα. – I may exercise them, having satisfied my hunger.
τὴν σὴν δὲ Κύπριν – But your Cypris
πόλλ’ ἐγὼ χαίρειν λέγω. – I bid much farewell.
Θεράπων
ἡμεῖς δέ – But we,
τοὺς νέους γὰρ οὐ μιμητέον, – for the young should not be imitated,
φρονοῦντας οὕτως, – thinking in this way,
ὡς πρέπει δούλοις λέγειν, – as it is fitting for slaves to speak,
προσευξόμεσθα τοῖσι σοῖς ἀγάλμασιν, – we will pray to your statues,
δέσποινα Κύπρι. – Lady Cypris.
χρὴ δὲ συγγνώμην ἔχειν, – One must have forgiveness,
εἴ τίς σ’ ὑφ’ ἥβης μάταια βάζει· – if someone in youth speaks foolishly.
 σοφωτέρους γὰρ χρὴ βροτῶν εἶναι θεούς. – For the gods must be wiser than mortals.
Χορός
Ὠκεανοῦ τις ὕδωρ στάζουσα πέτρα λέγεται, - A body of water dripping on a rock there is said to be,
βαπτὰν κάλπισι ῥυτὰν παγὰν προιεῖσα κρημνῶν· - pouring forth a flowing spring, fit for dipping jars, from cliffs;
ὅθι μοί τις ἦν φίλα - where for me there was something dear,
πορφύρεα φάρεα purple robes
ποταμίᾳ δρόσῳ - with river dew
τέγγουσα, θερ-wetting, and on a warm
μᾶς δ’ ἐπὶ νῶτα πέτρας εὐ- - sunny rock’s back
αλίου κατέβαλλ’·I laid them down;
ὅθεν μοι πρώτα φάτις ἦλθε δεσποίνας· - from where first a voice of my mistress came to me.
 ==================
Χορός
τειρομέναν νοσερᾷ κοίτᾳ δέμας ἐντὸς ἔχειν - Holding her body suffering in a sickbed inside the house,
οἴκων, λεπτὰ δὲ φάρη ξάνθαν- - in her chambers, with fine robes shading 
κεφαλὰν σκιάζειν·her golden head;
τριτάταν δέ νιν κλύω - and her, for a third I hear -- day
τάνδ’ ἀβρωσίᾳ that in fasting
στόματος ἁμέραν - of her mouth the day
Δάματρος ἀκτᾶς - of Demeter’s
δέμας ἁγνὸν ἴσχειν, - sacred body she holds back from + gen of demeters grain,
κρυπτῷ πένθει θανάτου - with hidden grief of death,
θέλουσαν κέλσαι ποτὶ τέρμα δύστανον. - wishing to go toward a wretched end. ποτὶ = peri
Χορός 
ἦ σὺ γ’ ἔνθεος, ὦ κούρα, - Are you inspired, O maiden,
εἴτ’ ἐκ Πανὸς εἴθ’ Ἑκάτας - Whether from Pan or from Hecate
ἢ σεμνῶν Κορυβάντων - - or from the solemn Corybantes
φοιτᾷς ἢ ματρὸς ὀρείας; - or from the mountain mother? - 
σὺ δ’ ἀμφὶ τὰν πολύθηρον Δίκτυνναν  - Or are you, around Dictynna full of beasts
ἀμπλακίαις ἀνίερος ἀθύτων πελάνων τρύχῃ; through transgressions of unsacrificed porage you un-holy one are worn out?
φοιτᾷ γὰρ καὶ διὰ λίμνας For you wander even through lakes
χέρσον θ’ ὑπὲρ πελάγους - and over dry land beyond the sea (sand bar where Hippolytus dies),
δίναις ἐν νοτίαις ἅλμας. - leaping in the swirling wet sea water.
Χορός 
ἢ πόσιν, τὸν Ἐρεχθειδᾶν ἀρχαγόν, τὸν εὐπατρίδαν - Or a husband, the Erechtheid prince, the noble-born one,
ποιμαίνει τις ἐν οἴκοις κρυπτᾷ κοίτᾳ λεχέων σῶν; - Does someone shepard a husband by hidden coitus in the houses of your chambers?
ἢ ναυβάτας τις ἔπλευσεν Κρήτας - Or has some sailor sailed from Crete,
 ἔξορμος ἀνὴρ λιμένα - to the port a sailing man,
τὸν εὐξεινότατον ναύταις, - the most hospitable to sailors,
φήμαν πέμπων βασιλείᾳ, - bringing word to (you) the queen,
λύπᾳ δ’ ὑπὲρ παθέων - by grief on behalf of sufferings,
εὐναία δέδεται ψυχά; - your bed bound soul having been bound? 
Χορός
φιλεῖ δὲ τᾷ δυστρόπῳ γυναικῶν ἁρμονίᾳ κακὰ δύστανος ἀμηχανία συνοικεῖν - The evil unfortunate without means things love to dwell in the difficult harmony of women
ὠδινῶν τε καὶ ἀφροσύνας. - of pangs of birth and folly.
δι’ ἐμᾶς ᾖξέν ποτε νηδύος ἅδ’ - through my womb once came forth this
αὔρα. τὰν δ’ εὔλοχον οὐρανίαν - breeze. But the well-guarded one, the heavenly,
τόξων μεδέουσαν ἀύτευν - guardian of arrows, I call upon
Ἄρτεμιν, καί μοι πολυζήλωτος αἰεὶ - Artemis, and she, ever much envied by me,
σὺν θεοῖσι φοιτᾷ. - wanders among the gods.
Χορός
ἀλλ’ ἥδε τροφὸς γεραιὰ πρὸ θυρῶν - But here is the old nurse before the doors,
τήνδε κομίζουσ’ ἔξω μελάθρων· - bringing this one out from the halls;
στυγνὸν δ’ ὀφρύων νέφος αὐξάνεται. - And a grim cloud of brows grows.
τί ποτ’ ἔστι μαθεῖν ἔραται ψυχή, - What is it? The soul longs to learn,
τί δεδήληται - what is disturbed,
δέμας ἀλλόχροον βασιλείας. - and why the queen’s body is of another hue?
Τροφός
ὦ κακὰ θνητῶν στυγεραί τε νόσοι. - Oh, the evil and loathsome illnesses of mortals.
τί σ’ ἐγὼ δράσω; τί δὲ μὴ δράσω; - What shall I do for you? What shall I not do?
τόδε σοι φέγγος λαμπρόν, ὅδ’ αἰθήρ· - Here is bright light for you, here is the sky;
ἔξω δὲ δόμων ἤδη νοσερᾶς - But now outside the housed
έμνια κοίτης. - are the sickbed’s coverings.