ⲙⲡⲣⲕⲣⲓⲛⲉ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲛⲛⲉⲩⲕⲣⲓⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲱⲧⲛ.
dont judge in order that then do not judge you

ϩⲙ ⲡϩⲁⲡ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁϯ ϩⲁⲡ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲕⲣⲓⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲱⲧⲛ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ.
for in the judgement which you all give judgement in it they will judge you in it

ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲙ ⲡϣⲓ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁϣⲓ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲩⲛⲁϣⲓ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲙⲙⲟϥ.
and in the measure which you all will measure it they will measure you with it

ⲁϩⲣⲟⲕ ⲇⲉ ⲕϭⲱϣⲧ ⲉ ⲡϫⲏ ⲉⲧ ϩⲙ ⲡⲃⲁⲗ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲟⲛ.
and why do you stoop to look a the beam which is in the eye of your brother 

ⲡⲥⲟⲓ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲧ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲃⲁⲗ ⲛⲅⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲛ.
but the speck which is in you eye you do not see it

ⲏ ⲛ ⲁϣ ⲛ ϩⲉ ⲕⲛⲁϫⲟⲟⲥ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲟⲛ ϫⲉ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ?
or in what manner will you say to you brother

ϭⲱⲧ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲉϫ ⲡϫⲏ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲃⲁⲗ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ⲡⲥⲟⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲃⲁⲗ.
permit me casting out the beam in your eye and behold the speck in your eye

ⲡϩⲩⲡⲟⲕⲣⲓⲧⲏⲥ ⲛⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲛ ϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲙⲡⲥⲟⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲃⲁⲗ ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ⲕⲛⲁⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉ ⲛⲉϫ ⲡϫⲏ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲃⲁⲗ ⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲟⲛ.
hypocrite, cast out first the speck in your eye and you will see out to cast out the beam in the eye of your brother

ⲙⲡⲣϯ ⲛ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩϩⲟⲟⲣ ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ⲙⲡⲣⲛⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛ ⲱⲛⲉ-ⲙ-ⲙⲉ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲉϣⲁⲩ ⲙⲏⲡⲟⲧⲉ ⲛⲥⲉϩⲟⲙⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲟⲩⲉⲣⲏⲧⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲕⲟⲧⲟⲩ ⲛⲥⲉⲡⲉϩ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ.
dont give that which is holy to the dogs nor cast your precious stones to them the pigs lest they trample them with there feet and they turn and divide you.

ⲁⲓⲧⲉⲓ ⲧⲁⲣⲟⲩϯ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ.
ask that it shall be given to you (future "ⲧⲁⲣ" - ⲟⲩϯ = conjunctive???)

ϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲧⲁⲣⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϭⲓⲛⲉ.
seek and that you will receive (future "ⲧⲁⲣ" - ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϭⲓⲛⲉ = conjunctive???)

ⲧⲱϩⲙ ⲧⲁⲣⲟⲩⲟⲩⲱⲛ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ.
knock that it is opened to you

ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲁⲓⲧⲉⲓ ϥⲛⲁϫⲓ.
for everyone that asks he will receive

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧϣⲓⲛⲉ ϥⲛⲁϩⲉ ⲉ ⲟⲩⲟⲛ.
and he who seeks he will find something

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧⲧⲱϩⲙ ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱⲛ ⲛⲁϥ.
and he who knocks they will open to him

ⲏ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ.
or what man among you all

ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉ ⲡⲉϥϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲁ ⲁⲓⲧⲉⲓ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲕ.
when his son will request of him a bread

ⲙⲏ ϥⲛⲁϯ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲱⲛⲉ.
not he will give to him a stone.

ⲏ ⲛϥⲁⲓⲧⲉⲓ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲧⲏⲃⲧ.
or if he requests of him a fish

ⲙⲏ ϥⲛⲁϯ ⲛⲁϥ ⲛ ⲟⲩϩⲟϥ.
he will not give to him a serpent

ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ϭⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲡⲟⲛⲏⲣⲟⲥ ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϯ ⲛ ϩⲉⲛϯ ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩⲟⲩ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ.
if therefore you being (you being = ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛ) some evil ones know to give some gifts being good to you chidren
(you being = ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛ)

ⲡⲟⲥⲟ ⲙⲁⲗⲗⲟⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ ϥⲛⲁϯ ⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲁⲅⲁⲑⲟⲛ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲁⲓⲧⲉⲓ ⲙⲙⲟϥ.
how much more your father who is in heaven he will give good things to those who request him

ϩⲱⲃ ϭⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲟⲩⲁϣⲟⲩ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲣⲉ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ.
therefore every deed which you desire them in order the men do them to you (do them = ⲁⲁ-ⲩ)
(do them = ⲁⲁ-ⲩ)

ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ϩⲱⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲁⲣⲓⲥⲟⲩ ⲛⲁⲩ ⲛ ⲧⲉⲓ ϩⲉ.
you yourselves do them in this way
(ⲁⲣⲓ-ⲥ-ⲟⲩ do them, the s is used to divide the pronominal suffix)

ⲡⲁⲓ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲡⲉⲡⲛⲟⲙⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲉⲡⲣⲟⲫⲏⲧⲏⲥ.
for this is the law and the prophets
("the prophets" as in their position on the matter)

ⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲧⲡⲩⲗⲏ ⲉⲧ ϭⲏⲩ.
go in through the gate that is narrow

ϫⲉ ⲥⲟⲩⲟϣⲥ ⲛϭⲓ ⲧⲡⲩⲗⲏ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲥⲟⲩⲉⲥⲧⲱⲛ ⲛϭⲓ ⲧⲉϩⲓⲏ ⲉⲧϫⲓⲙⲟⲉⲓⲧ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ ⲡⲧⲁⲕⲟ.
that broad it is namely the gate and wide it is namely the road which lead into destruction

ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲁϩ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲁⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲥ.
and many are those who will go in through it

ϫⲉ ⲥϭⲏⲩ ⲇⲉ ⲛϭⲓ ⲧⲡⲩⲗⲏ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲥϩⲉϫϩⲱϫ ⲛϭⲓ ⲧⲉϩⲓⲏ ⲉⲧϫⲓⲙⲟⲉⲓⲧ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ ⲡⲱⲛϩ.
that it is narrow namely the gate and it is rough namely the road which leads into life 

ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲉⲛⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲁϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ.
and some few are those who will find it

ϯϩⲧⲏⲧⲛ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲉ ⲛⲉⲡⲣⲟⲫⲏⲧⲏⲥ ⲛ ⲛⲟⲩϫ.
but give #### to yourselves for liar prophets

ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ϣⲁⲣⲱⲧⲛ ϩⲛ ϩⲉⲛϩⲃⲥⲱ ⲛ ⲉⲥⲟⲟⲩ.
these which come to you in some clothes of sheep

ⲡⲉⲩϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲇⲉ ϩⲉⲛⲟⲩⲱⲛϣ ⲛ ⲣⲉϥⲧⲱⲣⲡ ⲛⲉ.
but their innards are some wolves plunderer

ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲕⲁⲣⲡⲟⲥ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲥⲟⲩⲱⲛⲟⲩ.
it is through their fruits that you will know them

ⲙⲏⲧⲓ ϣⲁⲩϫⲉⲉⲗⲉ ⲉⲗⲟⲟⲗⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ ϣⲟⲛⲧⲉ.
surely they dont collect a grape out of a thorn bush

ⲏ ϣⲁⲩⲕⲉⲧϥ ⲕⲛⲧⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ ⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩⲉ.
or they gather a fig out of a thistle

ⲧⲁⲓ ⲧⲉ ⲧϩⲉ ⲛ ϣⲏⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϥ ⲛϣⲁϥⲧⲁⲩⲉ ⲕⲁⲣⲡⲟⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϥ.
this is the manner of every tree which is good produces out fruit which is good

ⲡϣⲏⲛ ⲇⲉ ⲉⲧϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϣⲁϥ ⲧⲁⲩⲉ ⲕⲁⲣⲡⲟⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉϥϩⲟⲟⲩ.
but the tree which is wicked produces fruit which is whicked

ⲙⲛϣϭⲟⲙ ⲛ ⲟⲩϣⲏⲛ ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϥ ⲉⲧⲁⲩⲉ ⲕⲁⲣⲡⲟⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉϥϩⲟⲟⲩ.
there is no power of a tree which is good to produce out fruit which is bad

ⲟⲩⲇⲉ ϣⲏⲛ ⲉϥϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲁⲩⲉ ⲕⲁⲣⲡⲟⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϥ.
nor a tree which is whicked produces out fruit which is good

ϣⲏⲛ ϭⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉⲛϥⲛⲁⲧⲁⲩⲉ ⲕⲁⲣⲡⲟⲥ ⲁⲛ ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϥ.
therefore every tree which not produces fruit which is good

ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲕⲟⲟⲣⲉϥ ⲛⲥⲉⲛⲟϫϥ ⲉ ⲧⲥⲁⲧⲉ.
they will cut down it and they will cast it into the fire

ⲁⲣⲁ ϭⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲕⲁⲣⲡⲟⲥ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲥⲟⲩⲱⲛⲟⲩ.
so therefore by their fruits you will know them

ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲁⲛ ⲉⲧϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ ϫⲉ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛⲉ ⲧⲙⲛⲧⲣⲣⲟ ⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
every one not whom says to me that lord lord (is) one who will enter into the kingdom of heaven
 
ⲁⲗⲗⲁ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲡⲉ ⲙ ⲡⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲙ ⲡⲁⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧ ϩⲛ ⲙⲡⲏⲩⲉ.
but he who is doing it the will of my father who is in heaven

ⲟⲩⲛ ϩⲁϩ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛⲁϫⲟⲟⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϫⲉ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲙⲏ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲁⲛ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲣⲁⲛ ⲁⲛⲡⲣⲟⲫⲏⲧⲉⲩⲉ.
for there are many who will say to me in that day that lord lord not down in your name we prophecized

ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲣⲁⲛ ⲁⲛⲛⲉϫ ⲇⲁⲓⲙⲱⲛⲓⲟⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ.
and down in your name we cast out a demon

ⲙⲏ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲁⲛ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲣⲁⲛ ⲁⲛⲣ ϩⲁϩ ⲛ ϭⲟⲙ.
not down in your name we did much greatness

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲟⲧⲉ ϯⲛⲁϩⲟⲙⲟⲗⲟⲅⲉⲓ ⲛⲁⲩ ϫⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲓⲥⲟⲩⲛⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲉⲛⲉϩ.
and then i will confess to them that I did not know them

ⲥⲁϩⲉ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲛⲉⲧⲣ ϩⲱⲃ ⲉ ⲧⲁⲛⲟⲙⲓⲁ.
depart you all from me those who do the work for lawlessness

ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ϭⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲉ ⲛⲁϣⲁϫⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲉϥⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ.
therefore everyone who hears my words whish these are and he does them

ⲉϥⲛⲁⲉⲓⲛⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛ ⲥⲁⲃⲉ.
he will be like to a man wise

ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁϥⲕⲱⲧ ⲙ ⲡⲉϥⲏⲓⲉ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲛ ⲧⲡⲉⲧⲣⲁ.
that is who built his house down on a rock

ⲁϥⲉⲓⲉ ⲡⲉⲥⲏⲧ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡϩⲱⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲛϭⲓ ⲛⲉⲓⲉⲣⲱⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲛⲓϥⲉ ⲛϭⲓ ⲛⲧⲏⲩ ⲁⲩϩⲓⲟⲩⲉ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ϩⲙ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲙⲡⲉϥϩⲉ ϫⲉ ⲛⲉϥⲧⲁϫⲣⲏⲩ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲛ ⲧⲡⲉⲧⲣⲁ.
it came down namely the rain (and) they came namely the rivers (and) 

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲉ ⲛⲁϣⲁϫⲉ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲛϥⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲁⲛ.
and everyone who hears my words which are these and he do not

ⲉϥⲛⲁⲉⲓⲛⲉ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛ ⲥⲟϭ.
he will be like a man a foolish one

ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁϥⲕⲱⲧ ⲙ ⲡⲉϥⲏⲓ ϩⲓϫⲙ ⲡϣⲱ.
that is he who built his house on sand

ⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲉⲡⲉⲥⲏⲧ ⲛϭⲓ ⲡϩⲱⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲛϭⲓ ⲛⲉⲓⲉⲣⲱⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲛⲓϥⲉ ⲛϭⲓ ⲛⲧⲏⲩ ⲁⲩϩⲓⲟⲩⲉ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ϩⲙ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩⲁ ϥϩⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉϥϩⲉ ⲛⲉϥⲟ ⲛ ⲟⲩⲛⲟϭ.
it came down namely the rain it came namely the rivers they blew namely the wind they struck into the house it fell and its fall was being great

ⲁⲥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲇⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲉ ⲓⲏⲥⲟⲩⲥ ⲟⲩⲱ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲓϣⲁϫⲉ.
and it came about when jesus finished these words

ⲁⲩⲣ ϣⲡⲏⲣⲉ ⲛϭⲓ ⲙⲙⲏⲏϣⲉ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲛ ⲧⲉϥⲥⲃⲱ.
they were amazed namely the crowds down onto his teaching

ⲛⲉϥϯⲥⲃⲱ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲛⲁⲩ ⲡⲉϩⲱⲥ ⲉⲩⲛ ⲧⲉϥⲉⲝⲟⲩⲥⲓⲁ ⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ ⲧϩⲉ ⲁⲛ ⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲅⲣⲁⲙⲙⲁⲧⲉⲩⲥ
for he was giving teaching to them...... 